Smartphones, In general, and Smartphones game's, in particular, have turned into an issue in nowadays' generation particularly for teenagers that have demonstrated a significant decrease in their development, social activities, health, and etc. Although the aim of inventing Smartphone was to make human beings' life easier in terms of communication, they also affect one's daily performances. One of the most controversial Smartphone games called "Pokémon Go", urges parents and society in general wondering whether "Pokémon Go is a positive cultural Force or it is Just another excuse for people to stare at their phones" (Conchar, 2016).
On one hand, many people claim that "Pokémon Go" is a mean that enables them to discover the world around them in new and enjoyable ways as Sarah Jeong, a contributing editor at Vice’s Motherboard vertical states. Sarah further explains that "I spent days discovering historical landmarks, parks, statues and street art all around the places Pokémon were hiding" (Conchar, 2016).
On the other hand, many people and physiologists believe that such games "trigger the survival mechanisms in the brain and inhibit the development of key functions of the prefrontal cortex — critical thinking, problem-solving, empathy, and attention" (Conchar, 2016). No matter whether people play these games indoors or outdoors their negative effect on the brain would not change; they "are detrimental to the developing brain" (Conchar, 2016).
However, I personally agree with the second claim. It is true that such a game opens the door and helps many people to discover and see the world from different point of view; still, we cannot ignore the fact that the disadvantages are much more than the advantages.
To conclude, people may see things differently, it might depend on their age, gender, or specialization. Some people might see "Pokémon Go" and other similar games as meaningful and useful games that can open their eyes to see things differently. However, others will see such games as a direct reason for several heaths problems.