Educators in classrooms never cease to find new strategies and methods that can develop, expand and improve their students' learning outcomes. Technology is widely used nowadays, young and adults spend more than half of their days using their phones, laptops, and iPads, etc. To take advantage of this issue, educators suggested to integrate technology as a way of teaching.
Student were asked to bring iPads to class because it is easier to use by touching, and it's small to carry on to different classes, and use it for writing, doing exercises, handing homework online, and so on.
Many researchers thought that it is a good idea to engage students, and motivate them to learn. However they claim that teachers can't rely on using iPads for best obtaining promising outcomes, and they should read and write from books and notebooks. Singer and Alexander (2016) found that school students enjoyed using tablets more than print textbooks but learned better when they used print textbooks. Which proves that textbooks is the guaranteed method for obtaining learning outcomes.
In the other hand, using technology made a huge change in the lessons. Using iPads enhance and foster student thinking skills and motivate them to interact effectively.
As study by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (2011), showed that "students using iPads saw their math test scores increase 20% in one year compared to students using traditional textbooks". Integrating technology and using several methods online provides a plenty of various practices and exercises that help students develop the process of their learning. In addition, it also reinforce their communication skills with the teacher and students in class.
As a result, I believe integrating technology could make a big difference and it actually helps a lot. I've used it in my practice teaching and the climate at the lesson was great and the lesson was successful. The lesson was a source of learning and source of enjoyment as well. Students should be stimulated, motivated, excited about lessons, and these elements are achieved when they're using their iPads in the classrooms.