Single-sex schools were popular many years ago. However, after a long period of time schools started to adopt the mixed-schools system. Recently, the belief that single-sex schools are better is gaining popularity. The claims suggest that girls perform better in these schools because they don't compete with boys and get more attention from the teacher. Personally, I believe that single-sex schools are not beneficial for several reasons.
First, schools should be considered as institutions that train students for adulthood and by having single-sex schools, boys and girls in these schools do not experience the real social life. Since that women and men interact together daily and have common spaces that they share, it is important to learn the skill of interacting and building a good and successful relationship with the other gender. Thus, students who graduate from these schools might find it difficult to communicate with the other gender in colleges and workplace, which ultimately might affect their performance.
Secondly, having a competitive element in the learning process, to a limited level, should not be considered not beneficial. Competition has also positive sides. It may encourage students to do better and excel. However, when noticing that the competition fact is playing a negative role, it should be addressed differently than separating boys and girls. Probably, a good guidance for the students would do the job.
Finally, the fact that boys get more attention than girls should not be considered as a reason to have single-sex schools. This way we are ignoring the fact that boys are superiors and get extra attention than girls. Not having a normal social life for girls in the future, should not be on account of the fact that they got less attention in schools.
As can be seen, having single-sex schools may play a negative role in the future social life of the students. Moreover, the claims that competition is always bad is not that accurate. Further, the fact that boys get more attention than girls is not an excuse to separate the genders in schools.