Nowadays, students and adults are exposed to the internet more often, we usually find families sitting together but are not really together. Some families say its family time and they just start playing video games or chatting, but does it really count as a family time?
There has been a popular game the was found recently. Student and adults are starting to not even like the game but even get addicted to it. The game is called “Pokemon Go”, it is a game that you have to find different types or creatures around where you live and if a person collects more the most they game the power and they also win.
Students are now overwhelmed with all of the studying and materials that they have to study or learn in schools, so maybe if they have a little free time to get their brain of and let it rest for a little bit it would be better to find a healthier way to do so. This such game does get students outside and it is a very hard thing to do nowadays, since they are all sitting at home and using their technology but going outside and also using technology is also a harmful thing and there is not point for even going outside if they are still harming themselves. Race mentioned, that “Pokemon Go was created as an augmented reality game” and that this such thing is not very real, and they are still using technology (Gonchar, 2016). In that case, the real question is what is so real about such a game when we are still using technology?. It is important to help children to get over their studying stress but it is important to also show them a healthier way to do so.
On the Contrary to Race, Jeong, states that because of this type of game she had been exposed to the outside worlds and also had been exposed to the sun (Gonchar, 2016).
Therefore, it is very important that we encourage not to use such a game even if it does have the positive side that influence students to go outside, but it also has a huge negative side to it.
Using technology outside and inside is a very harmful factor. Imagine that every family in this world is now playing this type of game and they are all searching for the creatures, do you think there will be a conversation that does not have to include this type of game?. This types of games will harm children focus, they will be focused on when they want to leave school so that they can look for the creatures. This type of game might also cause a death action. When children or adults are searching for the creatures they are trying to find it through the phone and the use of the camera on it, so while they are looking for this type of creature they might hit some type of a tree or a car might hit them without them even looking. As s result to all of the negative and some of the positive that I mentioned above and I do encourage adult and children to stop using such games that might harm out future.