This paper discusses the influence of Pokemon Go game especially in the light of two experts, Sarah Jeong and Kristen Race. Hence, Pokemon Go game could be viewed differently in terms of its influence.
Accordingly, a group of people may view Pokemon game as an excuse for the players to keep staring at their phones and to isolate from the surround. Whereas others believe that this game is a beneficial opportunity which motivate people to go outside, enjoy discovering the city where they exist, and to be more active.
In this regard, the editor Sarah Jeong shared her experience with playing Pokemon Go game particularly after she had a sunburn years ago. Thus, Jeong states that although on one hand this game is considered to be insecure app since it gains personal information about the player. On the other hand Pokemon game helped her to spend more time outside exploring and enjoying the art of the places where Pokemon were hiding, such as the parks, streets, and historical landmarks.
However, Kristen Race views this game differently by presenting the effects of such games on the brain of the children from an academic point of view. Hence, Pokemon game and other games were found after a series of academic studies for instance the American Academy of Pediatrics, which shows the fact that children mostly spend seven hours daily using and playing with their phones as an entertainment for them to release some stress after a school day.
Moreover, Race presents the influence of such games on the brain of children by stating that "essentially these games trigger the survival mechanisms in the brain and inhibit the development of key functions of the prefrontal cortex — critical thinking, problem solving, empathy and attention". Namely, such games have a positive influence on the children's brains because it motivates them to develop several significant skills.
To conclude, Pokemon game on one hand could be considered as a funny and enjoyable game. Particularly it has unique and new features which might motivate the players to be more active by going outside, enjoying, and discovering more places rather than sitting on one place and focusing in their phone screen.
On the other hand, such games might also be dangerous in some situations because it might lead to accidents. Basically, when the player focuses on tracking and finding the hidden Pokemon rather than paying attention to the world around him or her, such as the people and the cars on the street.