The Pokemon Go game has negative and positive effects on teenagers and adults. Many scholars discuss the dimensions of this game. In this essay only two scholars are mentioned; Sarah Jeong and Kristen Race. Both scholars discuss their opinions of the influence of the Pokémon Go game but differently. Each of the scholars see and think about the game differently.
The Pokémon Go game asks the player to walk and look for small monsters around. The player who plays this game is only stuck with his phone screen looking for monsters around. When a player plays this game, he doesn't need to focus on something, to solve a problem or even to think about anything. The player is like a robot, following a road to find some monsters and kill them. According to Kristen Race; this game " inhibit the development of key functions of the prefrontal cortex — critical thinking, problem solving, empathy and attention". In other words, Kristen Race argues that this game doesn't help the brain or develop it.
Although Sarah Jeong, believes that this game help people to go outside, as she claims " This game gave me a new way to enjoy the city around me". Sarah spent days to discover new parks, landmarks, and some streets around her through playing this game. She spent these days in order to look for the monsters of the Pokémon Go game, not for the purpose of enjoying time, nature, and new places around. By this way Sarah and the players who play Pokémon Go game don't actually see what is around them, the most important thing is to find the Monsters and Pokémon's. In making this statement, Kristen Race argues that Even though players play this game outside, " their brain is functioning in the exact same way it would if he were spending hours in an arcade. The only difference is now he needs sunscreen". So, players' bodies are walking outside, but they're not giving attention to anything around them except of the monsters.
To conclude, Pokémon Go game has negatives more than positives. Both scholars; Kristen Race and Sarah Jeong, look at the game and the effect of it differently.