Student number: 42
Prompt number: 16
Pokémon Go is a name of a phone-based game that millions of smartphone users around the world play. It basically requires the players to go out in order to find a Poke around that will appear on their screens. It is actually a controversial game since some might believe that it is really helpful, due to the fact that it makes people go out, while some might think that it is a waste of time because it is just another way for people to keep using their smartphones.
Sarah Jeong, for instance, a contributing editor at Vice’s Motherboard vertical, when talking about the game, admits: "Pokémon Go kept me outside and active, and it turned out that searching for the adorable little monsters in augmented reality gave me a new way to enjoy the city around me — I spent days discovering historical landmarks, parks, statues and street art all around the places Pokémon were hiding". In making this statement, Sarah argues that Pokémon Go game is beneficial for people since it makes them go outside the houses and discover the world. By focusing on this point, she encourages people to use or play this game which is in my opinion dangerous because people shouldn't discover the world in this way, while staring at their phones.
On the other hand, Kristen Race, the author of “Mindful Parenting” and the founder of Mindful Life, demonstrates: "Even though a child may be playing this game outside, his brain is functioning in the exact same way it would if he were spending hours in an arcade. The only difference is now he needs sunscreen". I agree with Kristen Race that children should not play this game, and even if they play it outside, they still stare at their phones and don't look around when they play it. So, like Race, I think that there is no difference between playing this game out or at home.
To sum up, Pokemon Go, even though it is a game where people go outside through playing it, is a game that only wastes people's time without doing something really beneficial. When they want to hang out or discover the world, they should do it without being so focused in their phones.