In his article, Michael Gonchar (2016) discusses the pros and cons of playing the game Pokémon Go, basing his argument on different perspectives of two experts; Sarah Jeong, a contributing editor at Vice’s Motherboard vertical and Kristen Race, the author of “Mindful Parenting” and the founder of Mindful Life.
Accordingly, Jeong claims that Pokémon go's app has a terrible and badly made design. Meanwhile, the game's system is insecure since it captures unnecessary personal information. Nevertheless, Jeong upholds the idea adopted by the game which is spending more time outside: "the adorable little monsters in augmented reality gave me a new way to enjoy the city around me". Jeong's point is that Pokémon go could have a valid influence on its players by motivating them to become more active and offering them the opportunity to explore the places around them.
On the contrary, Race is irritated by the fact that Pokémon go causes the kids to spend a huge amount of time staring on the screen. In this regard, she explains how the features of this game could threaten the kids' health: " these games trigger the survival mechanisms in the brain and inhibit the development of key functions of the prefrontal cortex — critical thinking, problem-solving, empathy, and attention." Thus, Race believes that kids should use the summer vacation to rest from the school screen damaging effects on the development of their brains, and not to boost it by playing Pokémon go which leads to a freeze in parts of their brains.
In short, both of the experts reveal important points that should be taken into consideration among Pokémon go game. It can be inferred that this game suggests a positive side on its players since it encourages them to have fun, and it gets people walking outside exploring their cities and parks. However, Pokémon go could also be another stereotype of screen games that grab the kids' time and disturb the development of their brains. Thus, parents could set parameters for their kids and limit their play time in order to preclude the damages of this game to win over its benefits.