The introduction of the book "Filter Bubble",  for sure woke me up for a couple of things that I never actually paid attention for, and didn't even realize before. The introduction explains to us what a filter bubble actually is, and how it works.
Although it was only an introduction, it was rich with information. A filter bubble is made of our computer's or phone's searching history. It is like a person who is surrounding us, and our search engines is it's oxygen which keeps is alive, in other meaning, the search engines is the element that keeps the man (the filter bubble) surround us.
For example, if we write a question on Google, not only you will receive answers, but also when you enter a website later that day, an ad or video which is connected to what we have searched for before, will pop up out of nowhere! By time, the filter bubble will predict what we will search for or watch next, based on our personality, according to the search history.
In my opinion, the filter bubble will slowly occupy us without even realizing it because we are to busy watching and / or reading what it has chosen  for us to watch.
In that way, keeping the search saved, the filter bubble will not give us the opportunity to watch and know other things, ideas and even point of views. It will only show us what we like to see, and not including what we have to see as a human being in this world. Although we use social media for our personal entertainment, we also, as human being, need to know what is happening in Iraq for example.
But the filter bubble will not give us the ability to do that when the only  thing what we search for on the internet is fashion or makeup and all the girly stuff. It is a good thing to always be updated to the latest trends, but we also need to know if there is a natural disaster  happening somewhere in the world.
So in my opinion, the filter bubble definitely affects us negatively.
If you want the filter bubble to pop up, the best way I could think of is clearing your phone and computer search history.  So there no longer will be oxygen for this person to stay.
So you have two choices, either you read and watch things only from you perspective of entertainment and the most popular ones, or you can try to vanish this bubble and become a person with more knowledge, instead of staying behind.