The filter bubble is a common phenomenon. First of all when I read the title "The Filter Bubble", it took a little minutes to understand what does it mean. When I started reading the article I recognized a feature in this phenomenon that is spread around the world that is full of technology. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is happening with you, with me and all of us daily without realizing it.
Facebook,Google,Youtube etc. All of the technology may be helpful for us, it is a free tool would lead us to know all the things we are wondering about and interested in. Indeed, it is a significant thing for us as users of technology and it is extremely effective.
Despite of all the positive aspects of technology, the phenomenon is hiding many details and information we may be interested in, and we want to be informed. The filter bubble is a search engine which describes infromation that we search for, it doesn't show us all the things that we may be not interested in. And I don't agree with it.
The filter bubble is affecting my thoughts. For example: Whenever I log into facebook I am surrounded by limited things  that I am interested in. In another words, things I search for them every single day. My news feed in Facebook is consisting of the people that I talk to the most. Before I  read this article I found that thing is better for me and much easier. I don't have to look for the people I talk to the most. They are going to appear on my page instead of going through the search key to look for them. Most of the time this feature is helpful. However, how about the time that someone's I don't talk to every single day and you can't call us friends. We are just "friends" on Facebook posts something interesting I want to hear about?
Just because of the filter bubble I won't be able to see this interesting things that is posted by this friend. And for me, I hate to be limited.
I feel that facebook and any application that is existed in our phones or computers is influencing me with every click I made on, taking away most of my creativity, knowledge and of course, the most important thing that is freedom.