There are many thoughts that the chapter provoked. Our computer screens are a kind of one way mirror, reflecting our own interests while algorithmic observers watch what we click. The internet giants nowadays race all together to know as much as possible about us giving free services, but the cost is getting information about us and translating that directly into money by predicting what each customer is interested in.
Personalization is influencing what we watch on YouTube, what blog posts we see and whose emails we get. It seems that the algorithms that orchestrate our ads are starting to orchestrate our lives.
Personalization is also based on a bargain, in exchange of the service of filtering we hand large companies an enormous amount of data about our daily life, much of which we might not trust friends with.
The new generation of internet filter looks at the things we seem to like, the actual thing we've done, the things people like us like and tries to extrapolate predicting what we will do and want next, creating a unique universe of information for each of us which is called a filter bubble.
The filter bubble can affect our ability to choose how we live and to be the authors of our lives and when we enter a filter bubble, we are letting the companies that construct it choose which options we are aware of.
I wasn't aware of how the information on the web is targeted to my interests, I am afraid that I'm not ok with it, because since December 4, 2009 the beginning of personalization, it seems that search engines would customize its results according to what kinds of sites we like, our characters and our interests and desires. Indeed they can help us find the information we need to know, see and hear but the costs are both personal and cultural. There would be personal and societal consequences for those of us who use personalized filters.
After I have read this chapter I intend not to click on articles, gadgets, pictures, videos etc. that may be harmful, because they simply will fade away quickly.
In my opinion, the online search and the news services should provide the exact information to their customers in a decent and honorable way. They shouldn't exploit their personal information for making money.
I believe that it is frustrating when social media sites show me the most popular posts instead of my friends' posts, because I'm interested in what my friends and family want to share me more than any other posts even if they are popular, because there are no financial greed behind their posts.