A good teacher enjoys working with young people.
Being a teacher is not just having a monthly paycheck, it has a about a serious job and a daily system to. In my opinion teaching is fun, it has penalty of opportunities to be creative by conveying information to young children.
As we all know that the Arab students look at the English subject as a difficult one, it is like impossible to master the language, so I think it's a challenge to me to show my abilities and how strong personality I actually have. All the children need an early knowledge to know how to overcome the disabilities in the future.
Choosing a career is not an easy job, it is as a conflict with yourself, seeing if you are qualified enough, if you are patient to hold on young people and to create your own energy and personality. That is why I chose to be an English teacher, it is because I do love working with group that include young people and the wellness to make a difference in their lives.
When you become a teacher, it is not just about passing a material or finishing a lesson. It is about creating new generation with clear mind. Sadly there are children that come from problematic families, they feel lost and have a messy thoughts. So that is why I am a teacher, I have to teach him the right from the wrong. I should consider myself as his family, his friend and his leader to. It is also about scarfing and believing in others, even if they do not believe in themselves.
Actually, nothing gives a teacher more joy than seeing his students gain new insights and learn more about the world they, live in. Teachers are changing the world everyday by increasing the understanding and knowledge of their students on a wide variety of mainly issues.
On the other hand, I chose to be an English teacher, because I want to share my passion and the love of the subject to others. When you love what you are doing, you make your life easier and the lives of the people who around you. I want to inspire them like the way I was inspired by my elementary English teacher.
It is not bad if you lose, it is about trying repeatedly until you fulfill your own victory. That’s why everybody says: "Teaching is the profession that creates all other professions".
In the end, I wants to say that no one forgets a good teacher, and as I'm preparing myself to be one, I promise I will do my best.