The prompt state that the young people have fun more than the older people. The definition of enjoyment is diffrent from every individual. I disagree with the argument because I believe there are many reasons where we can find older people enjoy life to the hilt rather than the younger ones.
Some people enjoy sitting alone and listening to music, others may enjoy reading books. In these days it is difficult to find time for ourselves because people spend the most of there times working, also each one has his own responsibilites this causes people to get in pressure and to forget about having fun. Older people have more time than the youngest ones, they spend there time relaxing and free from the mental pressure, they worry less about their kids who by this time get settled, which give them time to enjoy sitting in their houses in silence, drinking coffee, meeting friends and spending time with their family and grandchildren. There is a lot of activities for them to do for instance, traveling, reading books, playing golf and watching movies all this things gives happiness and make life much prettier. However youngest people may find this activities boring, the value of enjoyment vary from age to age but it does not mean that there are people who enjoy life more than others, it is depend on the person himself, sometimes we find older people full of energy, happiness and positivity more than teenagers whose life supposed to be easier for them because when we get older our commitment gets bigger. Youngest people enjoy investing in life and going through adventures, they enjoy dancing at the clubs, drinking, go shopping, traveling. However they have mental pressure of work responsibilities with family which encircled them with all of these, they are not able to find time for themselves which results into frustration in life. They have fun but it does not last long, they need to deal with a lot of responsibilities which causes them to feel tedious in their life. The percentage of depression today found to be high in percentage in the youngsters than in old people the older ones on the other hand are seeing cherishing life and guiding the youngesters to be cheerful.