Young people enjoy life more than older people do, although some people think old people enjoy life more than young people, however I think that young might enjoy their life more.
As well as for a variety of reasons, first of all young people have enough energy and passion to live and enjoy their times more than older people, because they still looking forward to more experiences. Beside of that, they have not responsibilities to force them only to work hard and be serious, on the contrary, old people have to committed to their responsibilities such as working, earning money, raise their children or get a college degree. They almost have no time to have fun or enjoy their life.
There are many adults it is enough for them to make their children happy and satisfied while they are busy providing all their needs, they also prefer to spend their free time with their families and children which is good, but on other hand most of adults in particular those who are parents, usually asking their children to choose what to do in their free time, so they behave accordingly.
For instances they might give up on watching movie because their children do not like it, or to visit some places they do not prefer to visit it just because it their student's choice.
All these cases or reasons could limit old's enjoying life, while young people do what they like to do and enjoying doing it.
Moreover, young people in general still have a healthy body which increase their desires to experience or try more and different adventures which make their life interesting and joyful, by contrast old people suffer from some of aches and injuries that prevent them do sport or leisurewear and interesting adventures.
In addition, if we figure out the differences between young people interests and conditions of their life we will discover that it is easier than the old ones, for example the Internet and social media add a lot of fun to the young life's, although it is available to everyone but old people have no time for it, because of that young people the luckiest to enjoy its advantages and gain the benefits which it brings.
Social media for instance, grant young people to know new people and communicate with them and with their friends, which is enjoyable, while old people have a limit time, they hardly meet their friends.
Lastly, all I mentioned it show a huge difference between the two generation, each one of them could have fun according to his/her time, desires and hobbies.
But it is important to remind that being happy it is only your choice, and it is related only on yourself not in your age. so have a time for yourself and have fun because you only live once.