Many challenges that learners face while learning second language or learning English as a Foreign Language (EFL). There are individual differences in Second Language learning. Each person or learner has a different and special ability from others.
One of learner characteristics is language learning aptitude, which means the ability to learn quickly. It is hypothesized that a learner with high aptitude may learn with high aptitude may learn with greater ease and speed but that other learners may also be successful if they preserve. Being able to speak a second language accurately, it requires the learners to have a good pronunciation for the words, in order to make their speech understandable. Therefore, words and sentences must be repeated due to serious errors in pronunciation, word accent and sentence. So, the learning of the main skills speaking, reading, writing and listening are needed. If the learners do not read well and do not have an appropriate pronunciation, their speech won't be understandable to the listeners. A lack of exposure to English and a little practice whether through reading, writing, speaking, or listening impedes learners from becoming proficient readers/speakers.
Learners expect to find a one-to-one correspondence between sound and its spelling, this confusion originates from misinterpretation of the spelling system, rather than difficulty with the pronunciation of the sounds. Some students often experience problems or confusion of spelling about which letter to write. With good pronunciation, the students’ self-confidence will be increased and this enables them to understand and to communicate with others. This can be achieved if students know that pronunciation is as important skill as the other skills in order to learn a language.
I think I did not have a high aptitude, I need time to understand and remember things, it is difficult to learn second language especially English, which is totally different from the first language. Learners might face problems with reading related to the differences between Arabic and English, the Arabic alphabet is different from the English alphabet it has 28 letters while English has 24 letters, which make it difficult to read some words. In addition, in Arabic there are many of letters which have different shapes, depending on their position in a word, which is not the same thing in English, letters don’t have different shapes in a word, and there are capital letters, such as, nouns, at the beginning of a sentence, titles, etc. also, Arabic is written through the line from right to left, but in English from left to right, which makes the adaptation to the opposite direction in reading is a problem.
Also, I think that I am a sociable person, I like to communicate with others using second language, which help me to learn the language faster. And practice teaching in classes help the learners to practice how to use the language in an accurate way, correct grammar and pronunciation which make many improvements in second language learning.
To sum up, I intended to present some of the challenges and difficulties that learners might face, especially Arab ESL students, suffer from many reading and speaking problems.