Throughout my learning process, I was introduced to different ways and abilities for each learner to process and acquire a language. Certainly, it didn’t only guide me as a teacher, but it also helped me as a learner to discover, to an extent, my own abilities.
Aptitude refers to the ability to learn quickly; the higher it is, the easiest and quickest for a learner to learn. Moreover, we should take into consideration that even though not everyone has the same abilities, they could learn a language by persevering. Before starting college, it wasn’t really easy for me to comprehend any kind of material, even in my own mother-tongue. I developed a habit of reading English fiction in 10th grade, and it gave me a push in acquiring more vocabulary into my lexicon, and understanding the way English native speakers used the language. After entering college, I was assigned with a large amount of reading. At first, I thought it might be difficult for me to adjust to everything, but I took that as a challenge and tried to set a pace for every course. Within the first two to three weeks, I was able to be on track with the reading and understanding while mostly everyone was still trying to adjust. Later on, I connected this fact with their lack of reading in general, since reading is not an easy thing to do when you’re not really into it and you have a large quantity of material to cover. Furthermore, as a learner, I wouldn’t really say that I have a high aptitude because I still need time to process the material of each course; I only persevere, and put as much effort as possible into my learning, also, the fact that I liked reading, played a role on my performance.
Some might claim that only extroverted learners are suitable for learning a language. To some extent, this might be true, but in my case, it is not. I learned English from listening to music, watching movies, and reading; it wasn’t really from asking questions, etc. After entering college, I tried to get out of my comfort zone and become an extroverted learner by using spoken English as much as possible. At first, I was anxious in doing so, but later on, I was able to use my anxiety for my own good, especially when I sensed the anxiety of my peers. This certainly boosted my confidence and I became more comfortable in using the language openly, and taking risks in making mistakes. I’m a bit surprised my pronunciation is not all messed up since I didn’t really use the language back then, I was more of a self-conscious person/learner and I was inhibited. College and using English in college, played a big role on my personality.
As individuals, we learn according to our own preferable ways. For me, as a learner, I’m good at processing new information visually and aurally, but prefer the former one. Visual learning can cover for auditory one, but not the opposite way around. Moreover, I tend to be more into the field-independent, which is seeing things more analytically, yet, I still believe in the importance of field-dependent.