The individual differences in second language learning help the students to get the language clearer and it's also can affect the student's on how he / she can acquire the second language. For me the characteristics that can lead me to success in learning the second language. I consider motivation is one of the important characteristics we have different forms of motivation. Like instrumental motivation can be learning a language for more practical reasons, for example, if I am going on a trip to Rome, Italy. I might want to prepare for the upcoming trip by taking a crash course in Italian, learning how I can find the way around, to ask about different places. And there is another form, it is the Integrative motivation this motivation for my own growth. Like I will take a Spanish course, learning a new language for my own growth, because I am interested in this language. And of course being motivated and relaxed can have a positive effect on L2 learning, but when I am nervous it's another thing. I think when I am nervous can I am focused on both the task at hand and the reaction to it on the other hand, in this way I think I am not going to learn quickly and I will not be relaxed. Aptitude combines aspects of memory with cognitive analysis for learning language may make it easier for me as a learner for a second language, for example when I do the practice teaching in the school and I teach the students English as a second language I know that I have in the class different intelligences, some students they need an extra explanation. The students who struggle with the language are quite capable of catching up to their faster peer when these students given appropriate motivation and learning that adapts to their intelligence, aptitude and learning styles. Anxiety is another aspect that varies from student to another, in general anxiety in the language classroom has been considered prohibitive to learning, some students who they struggle with anxiety, I actually got the chance to talk with them and to understand why they face anxiety and there are levels for anxiety. Because the students should have fun and learn in the same time, as a future teacher I will make sure that my students will face anxiety less than the usually , because most of the students who face anxiety they are afraid t speak or to read in fort the classroom because they always think that their class mate will make fun of them and this is wrong, this anxiety will give the students a bad reflection about their personality and this problem may continue with the student's in his educational period. As a future teacher I will work on this point to make all the students understand that they are in the school in order to learn, not to make laugh of each other. And the conversation will between the students will make them feel confident.