There are individual differences that are inherent in the learner can predict success or failure in language learning. English is a foreign language for me; I am Amal Salameh and I am second-year student, I started learning English when I was 8 years old, in the third-grade it was an obligatory material to learn until 12th grade. I don’t speak English very well because I live in a Jewish county where Hebrew is the native language. And I speak English less than the Hebrew so the English language is spoken when we learn it or teach it or when we want to read information about it.
I feel that the easiest thing and help me with the process of education is the “learning style which is the individual’s natural and preferred ways of absorbing, processing and retaining new information“. In the learning style that each learner how to recognize the material faster than others and in the most successful way, for example, I feel that I understand by hearing the material is called: “auditory learners” and we have students who called visual learners”.
They cannot learn anything until they have seen it. For example, videos pictures something in front of them and that helps them to be more successful. Also, we have the “kinesthetic learners” the better way to teach them through the role play or to act a clip or to make a conversation. These learners need to learn through physical acting.
The second thing that helped me is the personality characteristics, it has been proposed as likely to affect second language learning. So, I found that the most successful way is quiet, the quiet observant learner may have greater success not necessary with getting a high score on measures of extraversion, for me, I think that the quiet very important which is necessary for lessening and understanding after all to succeed. Of course when you quiet and listen to what the teacher says you will succeed and you can understand what the teacher explained. Other learners can’t understand in this way, they found that the success in language learning is correlated with the learners’ score on questionnaires measuring characteristics associated with extraversion such as assertiveness.
Attitude and motivation are one of the characteristic that observed my second learning success, and it really helped me in having the willingness to keep learning and to perceive the communicative value in ode to succeed. For me: the motivation is highly important in the classroom, it is comfortable and suitable for all the students also it is nice and enjoyable the classroom for all the students. In addition to the teachers that encouraging the students to do what we are want to do. Also, participating us in the class through individual or pair or group work while the teacher teaching us activities that are interesting and motivating all the learner. This really affected my second language learning success