I think that learning a second language is the best knowledge a man can add and gain; it enriches our brain stores with a lot, variety of meanings and uses of many languages. While learning this course "second language acquisition", many features and characteristics were discussed and mentioned. Personally, I had related some of them to my own experience and personality so I am aware of what might be the reasons that affect my learning process (positively and negatively).
The first factor that has a huge relation with me progressing in learning a second language is the age and the teachers' appropriate use of methods to suit the demands of a given age. Learning English as a second or a foreign language since I was in the third grade was not taught in its best way; however a part of it was acquired successfully - which is related to the fact that I was a child then. In addition, when I was a child I wasn't aware of the importance of learning a second language so I did not put a lot of effort to make a noticeable progress, like controlling the best accent, practicing at home, etc. but in this time, as I'm older, I have the will to be the best English learner. The role of the teacher and the parents in the school years was missing a lot of features (motivation, challenging, and conversations) which could affect our personality and learning process positively... Now, I watch, listen, read, and search for more strategies to improve my English lexicon and pronunciation.
Moreover, I think that a one's personality has a huge reflect on any move a person might take. For me, I think that this factor is most important and has the biggest impact on learning a second language. Believing in me may hinder or support the goal I am trying to achieve which in this case is acquiring and mastering a second language. When I am fully confident, I make a progress. When I am anxious I think a lot and can't focus on the goal so I fail. The more I have the power to communicate with others, the more I believe in myself and in my abilities, the more I produce words which facilitate the speech. There are more characteristics that are connected to master a language, such as, our capacity to understand a language (intelligence), practicing the language…
Another factor or characteristic might still have its sequences regarding second language learning is Motivation. It is obvious that learners who want to learn are likely to achieve more than those who do not. The role of attitudes and motivation in SLA for me keeps changing. My goals are still the same, but sometimes the progress and the efforts are not being enough to give me a push and to jump, which affect my will to continue learning. The fact that I need to learn English as a second language lower my wish, although I am interested in the people and culture of many places in this world which I will visit, but the real motivation of learning such a language still missing.
In the light of what is written above, I totally believe that achieving a success in learning a second language starts from the learner him/herself. A little push (from others) to love the language and show its importance will has its impact until the end.