A second language learning is a very important and useful process for everyone, acquiring a second language has many advantages for any learners. It can open a lot of job opportunities, when you speak two or more languages you will improve your employment prospects, it helps you to become smarter, it improves your memory and it increases you attention span, and it exercise your brain, challenges you to concentrate and enhance your problem-solving skills.
In the second language many studies report that there are many differences between second language learners, there are learners who can master the language faster than the others, and this depends on some traits and characteristics such as intelligence, responsibility, having a motivation to learn a language, and other characteristics.
This course “Second Language Acquisition”, gave us the opportunity to discuss and focus on different learners’ characteristics and how they can help us success in acquiring the second language.
For me, being an English teacher in the future, requires me to acquire a second language which is foreign language for me, which is English. In the beginning learning the language was a little bit difficult, I faced some difficulties in my understanding skills and in my speaking skills. But later, I become more fluent while speaking, and now I can guess the meaning of a certain word depending on the context of the sentence even if I can’t understand each and every word in the sentence.
I took the responsibility for myself that I will master this language, so the first thing that I did is that I realize that I must learn from my mistakes, trails, and errors, then I became aware of my mistakes and I tried to not to repeat the same mistake again. For example, I worked hard on improving my pronunciation, and I practice a lot, in every time I pronounce a certain word incorrectly I searched and listen for the correct pronunciation then I did not repeat my mistake again.
In addition, I am a confident person, I knew from the beginning that I will success in acquiring the second language, and I can master it, also I got a lot of support from my family and my lecturers to go on and to continue learning this language.
So self-confidence, motivation, and practice helped me a lot in acquiring the second language and made the process of learning it easier.
So as I mentioned, in order to acquire the language you need to practice more, from my experience, I believed that practicing the language is one of the most useful ways to acquire a second language, I practiced my listening skills, I listened to music, news, and I watched a lot of movies, also I practiced my speaking skills, I was standing in front of the mirror and I started speaking in English, this helped me to be more confident, more fluent in speaking the second language. The last thing that I want to mention is that also I have a big motivation to acquire the second language because it is the common language that is used all over the world and I have a big belief that facilitate mastering the second language.
To conclude, it is very useful to acquire a second language because of many reasons that I mentioned before, and there are many ways that can help you to become more proficient in that language. Also each learner has different characteristics that can define whether the learner can master the second language or not.