Every learner has his difficulties and characteristics in learning second language acquisition. You may find several people with the same characteristics but you will also find something that they differentiate in. Now, I am going to discuss my own characteristics.
Firstly, I have anxiety when it comes to learning second language, that is how my personality is, I tried to change that but I could not. Before presenting a presentation, I feel that the people that they are going to evaluate me are going to laugh at me and to give me bad feedback. And not to talk about the lecture itself, I feel so stressed in front of him that I breathe so fast. However, when I present, I feel so good that I did the presentation no matter what other people think because I have anxiety and they do not so they will not understand me. I feel happier when I hear good feedback from my classmates and the lecturer. Also, when I am with a group, I do not feel worried or afraid. On the contrary, I feel that I am safe and comfortable. So this anxiety is actually a good thing because it helps me succeed no matter how hard it makes.
Secondly, my learning style is auditory. I understand better when I listen to something than reading something. When I read I think about other things that I cannot focus anymore because I know that if I lost my focus, I can read it one more time. But hearing something especially if it is second language acquisition, it is hard to not to focus because you can hear it only one time and also you cannot think of anything else. for example, when Mrs. Hana put the film so we can watch it in class it was very helpful and interesting. When combining pictures and sounds together, they make a great combination, especially for second language learners. It helps us so much and we can understand better.
Thirdly, motivation in the classroom is very important not only for me but for all of the class, especially in second language acquisition. The teacher must know how to activate the students and to match the activities according to the students' level. Even though the class is heterogeneous, he must do activities to all of the levels. The teacher must make sure that all of the students participate to make a good lesson. Once when I was in the 7th grade, the teacher gave us a text and the questions to do and only me did it, the others were bored and did want to do the worksheet. So this is an example of low motivation in the classroom. But in order to make high motivation and to make the students happy and anxious for the lesson, teachers need to take into consideration the level of the class and the number of students and try as possible to make it group work because they can interact with each other help each other.
To conclude, every person has his own characteristics and makes him different from other people, for example, his personality, learning style and motivation in the classroom.