During my learning process I have discovered many different ways of learning, some of them are suitable for me and made me develop my personality and my English skills and some are hard to adopt.
My strong and extroverted personality helped me improve my English skills in two roles, firstly, my role as an English learner, having such a personality helped me by fitting me in the English major very well, that's happened by making me comfortable during the oral presentations or during the class discussions or even by simply being an efficient part in the English department and in the college in general. Secondly, my role as an English teacher at schools, in this role the use of my personality was a bit different because the aims are different, my aims in schools are to have a full control in the class, to make the knowledge/material receive well and to promote my personality as a teacher.
Each learner prefers a specific learning style, my preferable ones are visual and kinesthetic styles, because by learning in these ways the new information that I am exposed to, stock in my long term memory and become hard to forget and much easier to memorize whenever I want to. Furthermore, these two styles make me more excited to learn more and not to get boring so fast. In terms of field dependent and independent learner, I can't really decide yet, because sometimes I define myself as a field dependent learner since it is easier to see things in a historical and direct way, but when it comes to memorizing things I define myself as a field independent and prefer to deal with data/information analytically.
In the beginning of my learning process I was a lazy person that cannot commit to any kind of learning frame, after I saw the low grades and the mess that I faced during the exam period, I got to a belief that success cannot be achieved without hard work and that we cannot count only on our small vocabulary amount or to our IQ. In the second year I tried as much as possible to stay with a full focus during the lessons and to do whatever required for me, at first It was hard for me but with my great welling to succeed I started working on my English pronunciation, my writing skills and my comprehension of the complex texts. However, my valuable knowledge in grammar facilitated the learning process of the advanced grammar courses, I was always trying to shine and to be one of the highest graders of the grammar courses and I did and still trying to in the advanced ones. This all happened because of my great love of grammar, so I think that being good at a certain subject reflects how much you love it, I am trying to apply this useful technique in other courses so I can improve my skills.