Learning a second language is both a challenging and an important process that we should follow during our lives, in order to be able to communicate with other nations, to identify different cultures and to express our feelings, emotions and ideas freely with not limits with people from a different country or continent. Like most people, I love my mother-tongue language and I have the desire to experience the joy of learning a new language and culture. In achieving this goal, it is important to remember that language learning is not simply a cognitive endeavor, and that I have a variety of possibly strong emotions about the second language learning.
Each learner of a second language has different motivations, beliefs about language learning, and anxiety levels. He needs to recognize his own abilities and characteristics in order to be as successful as possible in acquiring this foreign language, he has to reach a specific state in which he feels comfortable using his new language skills, identify and maintain positive learning motivations, and develop realistic beliefs about the second language learning. One of the important characteristics that I have is aptitude, which is the ability to learn quickly. And it is listed in my strengths list of things that helped me in acquiring a foreign language quickly, because being able to memorize new words, sounds and sentences in a short given amount of time and under given conditions is a special thing in my language learning process, which helped me in developing my language learning skills faster, so I became more satisfied while speaking with people who speak the language I am learning.
An additional characteristic I have is anxiety. Some people may consider it as a weakness feature, but for me it is a very essential characteristic that has facilitated my process of learning a foreign language easily and quickly, and this is for many reasons, at first I was a very anxious person who always feels hesitate a lot when standing in front of a big class in order to present something or to teach a lesson, I was very afraid to say something wrong and to embrace myself, I thought that people will judge my language skills by the number of errors I make, so I tried to be perfect as much as possible, and this made me spend an extra time on preparing my presentation, so that I will avoid the bad feelings while presenting in the next day. This experience shows that being anxious will make you put more efforts in your learning process, the thing that will help you success in acquiring the language in a short time, and hopefully, to see yourself successful in dealing with your anxieties. In addition, we need to be aware that everyone has anxieties, and it is a very crucial thing, because this will lead us out into the open, and will help us see that we are not alone. Thus, we can potentially overcome our anxieties or to feel better about ourselves knowing that others have anxiety too, so we will be no more afraid of making mistakes when seeing others making mistakes too.
A good characteristic I have is motivation, I see myself as a motivated person in learning new languages. Some learners only study the second language because of a language requirement, but for me the thing is different, I study a second language because I love trying and identifying new, challenging and hard things, also I expect to use the language in my future career. Thus, I am a highly stronger motivated person who is willing to be successful in learning a foreign language, and my motivation helped me a lot in attaining this purpose, so I come to the college with a high enthusiasm every day, because I am doing what I love and I am not forced to do it.
In the end, I classify my second language learning process as a successful one. And this is due the various and positive characteristics that helped me in overcoming the obstacles that make it harder to acquire a new language. I have a very high level of motivation to learn a new language, and I see it as a great challenge that will make me communicate successfully with other people from different places around the world. In addition I have confident beliefs in my own abilities that I can do it, also I can turn my weakness feature which is; anxiety, into strength that will help me acquire the language quickly.