Taking the course of “Introduction to second langue acquisition” made me expand my knowledge of how a person can acquire a second language. Through learning about the learner characteristics, I realized that some characteristics didn’t even came to my mind that might play a big role in acquiring a second language. I discovered in terms of learning style characteristic is that I am an auditory and visual person, I learn through listening and seeing, for example if I heard the word tree and saw a picture of a tree, it sticks to my mind and I can remember it more if I wrote it down. And with repeating the word tree more than once, I remember it better. That made me realize that there is a variety of different styles of learning that students can have, some students might learn only if they see (visual), some students might learn only if they write, it could be both or more than one style. With those differences we cannot teach students with only one style, we need to have a variety of different techniques and styles to match each students’ styles.
I discovered also something really interesting about my personality that I didn’t even payed attention to. When we learned about the characteristic of extroversion and introversion, I started to ask myself if I am an extroversion person or an introversion person. When I read more about it, I found out that I have some qualities of extroversion and introversion. I am a very positive, relaxed and confident person, I get my motivation and “recharge my battery” with talking to people and communicating. However sometimes I feel I need more time alone, to think deeply and to get motivated by things I read, places I visit, meditation, things that I like to do alone.
It helps me breathe slowly and to focus on my goals. I seek for variety and uniqueness, and that help me in learning, I always search and think more of different things than normality. All of that made me realize that I have my own style in learning, I am with a social learning style, I like to share stories, communicate with colleges and have a discussion. But sometimes when it comes to getting energy, I like to be alone. And just as I have my learning style and personality, also each student has his own unique personality. When we find in our classroom students who are introverted, we shouldn’t think of them like they cannot learn or understand just because they are not participating in class like the students who are extroverted. This thing we should take into consideration.
It was mentioned throw our course about anxiety as a characteristic that can affect learning process. I think that a certain amount of tension can push me to accomplish things. I am a “last minute” person in doing things. For example, I study for an exam in the last day before it. With being exposed to this characteristic, it made me think that many students have anxiety, the harmful and helpful one. We need as future teacher to know how to deal with these situations.