Motivation, attitude, age, intelligence, aptitude, cognitive style, and personality are considered as factors that influence someone in the process of his or her second language acquisition. Experts state that those factors give a more dominant contribution in SLA to learners, depend on who the learners are, their age, how they behave toward the language, their cognitive ability, and also the way they learn.
Motivation is one of the most important factors in second language acquisition, I believe that the motivation comes from the determination of each one of use the desire to do something. It is obvious that learners who want to learn are likely to achieve more that those who do not.
There are two types of motivation
1.	Integrative motivation
2.	Instrumental motivation
In my own personal opinion, I think that I have the second type that is "instrumental motivation", the goal for learning the second language (in our case out third language) are functional and useful, the aim of studying and trying my best to master this language with its all forms is to get a better job, to be able to work using this language, and that’s my aim.
Age is one of the factors that influence second language learning, it is generally believed that children are better at language acquisition that adults, and I can reflect that on my personal experience, I teach courses for all sort of different ages, and I believe that when we exposure the children at a young age to another language they can acquire it faster that the adults, another thing, the ability of acquiring a second language may be more difficult after puberty because the brain lacks the ability and adaption. I believe that learners who starts learning a foreign language as children achieve a more native-like accent that who start as adult.
As a personal reflection of this stage, I myself used to practice, listen and watch English series / songs, or to hear stories from my mother, and to start to try to read at my own, and that actually was really helpful for me, to be exposed to this language at a young age, because when the child / teen is confident that he knows the language, he/they will try to practice it more and to use it with others while speaking.
On the other hand, there are research claims that the formal learning at a because at that young age children cannot understand the syntax and morphology of the sentence, and the progress will be slower than adults,
Adults can progress faster, and can understand what is giving to them, but again as my personal opinion, the exposure at a young age is very helpful for both the individual and the teacher, maybe yes they cannot understand the academic label for each rule but they can be exposed, and when they learn the rule at later on they can remember and know a lot better that the ones that did not been exposed at a young age.