After we have finished the third chapter that explained the individual differences in second language learning, I went over each individual characteristic and reflected on them and which one of them affected me and how they affected my English as a foreign language learning staring from school until today. In this regard, I will write about the two characteristic: language learning aptitude and attitudes and motivations and how they affected my EFL learning.
Looking back at when I was a student at school, I could say that I had a high language learning aptitude when it came to studying English, whether it was with studying vocabulary, writing, or grammar. I always had the ability to learn quickly, and predicted my own success in English; when we had an exam, I knew I would get a high grade in it, and was very excited to study for it because I also knew I wouldn't find it difficult. However, this aptitude was only with studying English and not with other school subjects.
I would say that my strong area in studying English is in remembering and memorizing new words. I loved sitting down having a list of new words and memorizing them, I found it very easy and fun. Also today as an English student at college, I still like memorizing new word. My weakness might be with some grammatical structures that I am improving.
In addition to language learning aptitude, I will reflect on attitudes and motivation. My attitude toward English has always been positive, from school and up till today. And I might say that my success in this language, and that I was different from my other classmates is the reason for this positive attitude.
Along with attitude, my motivation for studying English is integrative motivation and instrumental motivation; on one hand, I study English because I want to have the cultural enrichment and the personal growth through contact with speaker of English, also I am encouraged from the inside, not because someone else want me to study the language. On the other hand, I want to be an English teacher, and in order to be an English teacher, I need to study English in college for practical goal.
I was constantly motivated for English class at school, even though teachers back then did not do anything special to make the class fun or to include any activities in their teaching. I was only motivated because I liked the language and wanted to study it. And now as a college student I still have the same motivation for each course.
To conclude, I always knew that my attitude toward English and studying this language is strongly positive, my aptitude have always been very strong when it came to memorizing new words or studying grammar even though I found some grammatical structures challenging. Moreover I didn't need to have a reason to study and to succeed in English, I was always motivated for my English classes and I know that I will improve all my weaknesses that I find somehow challenging in my studies.