As we all know, every human being is different from other beings in many aspects. Furthermore, learners who learn a second language have many differences that may help or hinder in acquiring the target language.
My characteristics on relation to learning English as a foreign language are:
Personality:
I am a learner of English as a foreign language. I define myself as an adventurous student in which I am a confident person who likes to speak (to use the language not because I have to; instead because I want to), and try new things.
According to the different types of anxiety (tension) mentioned in the chapter, I feel anxious in using English in the classroom in particular situations and circumstances; for example, when giving an oral presentation in front of the whole class, but not when interacting with peers or any discussion is involved. Also, feeling anxious affects my performance at the very beginning, but later on, it all goes better and I feel more relaxed.
Intelligence:
I was interested in what type of intelligence I have, so I entered to check what all of the types of intelligence were, and what I found was this website.
In which it helps to know to what you mostly fit in. I tried it out and the answer that I got was this website.
Verbal-Linguistic Intelligence.
“People who are strong in linguistic-verbal intelligence are able to use words well, both when writing and speaking. These individuals are typically very good at writing stories, memorizing information and reading. They tend to learn best when they read or hear information and often enjoy debating or giving persuasive speeches”.
Your strengths include:
Remembering written and spoken information,
Reading and writing,
Debating or giving persuasive speeches,
Explaining things well,
Using humor when telling stories,
Potential Career Choices.
If you're strong in linguistic-verbal intelligence, good career choices for you are:
Writer/journalist,
Lawyer,
Teacher.
I find this part very interesting in which it provides choices for careers that fit each one’s personality, and I feel the last two careers are the most reflecting to me.
Really, I think this website helps me a lot to know which type of intelligence do I have. I am a student who likes to make sure that everything mentioned in class is jotted down for future reviewing; even when I read a book or an article in English, I like to take notes and highlight important ideas. Furthermore, I am an active student who takes part in any interaction or debate in class. I find all of the merits mentioned above very helpful in learning a foreign or a second language. Moreover, during the lessons in the college, sometimes I can manage to do that in order to follow and understand (appropriate learning style); however, in some courses, lecturers don’t like to write during their lecturing, and this makes me feel confused because it’s the way where I basically write in order to understand what is being taught.
In addition, motivation is an essential component to learn a second language. There are two types of motivation: intrinsic and extrinsic. Although, many studies show that both of them are mostly given the same result in regard to the success or the acquisition of a second language (the article in my previous assignment shows this result), I think that I have an intrinsic motivation in which I wish to learn the language for personal growth and cultural enrichment, and there are no external forces or effects to the reason I learn it.
Also, I found an article in which teachers take into account students’ multiple intelligence with regard to different learning styles. The results showed that these students are highly motivated with highly academic achievements.
Moreover, the other difference between individuals in second language in which highly related to motivation, is the learner attitude. It symbolizes the learner willingness to learn; the positive attitudes are associated with a willingness to keep learning. Regularly, if someone has positive attitudes towards the language being used by a native speaker, s/he will desire to learn more about that language. This is exactly the same thing I feel with the English language and I am always enthusiastic to learn more about it from the different aspects.
Learner belief:
According to my experience and what I studied in the other course, I prefer the theory of Krashen, which is related to learning a language aiming to provide learners with more exposure than just drilling and giving materials to our students. Although, sometimes drilling is needed.
As a future teacher, I think that my responsibility is to change the previous thinking about teaching a language (rules and instructions), because I believe that if I get this process in my school, there will be a huge difference. Therefore, the previous experience really affects the way learners deal with a language, motivation and interests. When I was a school learner, I found it hard to like and understand the language, because teachers barely used it. However, I strongly believe that with time, the process gets better and we can always make beneficial changes.