For myself, I have the ability to memorize new sounds and to remember new words easily, that’s help me to acquire the new vocabulary easily and be able to use the new words; the capacity of the brain is high, that I can remember the information easily. It's just enough to be exposed to a word and then I will save that word. There are cases that I hear a word and I am aware that I know that word and I can't remember it, it's just enough to check the word and I will save this word automatically, and never forget it, moreover to use it in different contexts. That is not just true for the words but for everything that I want to learn and to know.
Here in this section, it is mentioned two types of learners; auditory learners and visual learners, and I am considered a visual learner because if I want to acquire or to memorize things easily I just need to see that thing in front of me, for example if I want to memorize new word or new vocabulary I need just to see a picture for that word if there is a pictures, that will make the word sticks into my head and never forget it, not just to see the picture but also to see the word itself and the written form of that word. That is not true only for acquiring new words but also for everything in my live; the moment I see the shape of the thing I will memorize it and if there is no shape I try to imagine thing that help me remembering.
In addition, in the practice teaching I use a lot of images and visual aids that helps the students, because mostly a high percent of the class are visual learners.
Of course I am motivated enough in the classroom or even at doing my assignments I will perform much more better that If I do that because I need to.
For me not only my motivation to learn is the only thing that helps me acquire better but also the teacher's attitude and strategies at teaching.
There are sometimes that I am very motivated and enthusiastic to learn but the teacher's way at teaching is very boring and that affects me and I lose my enthusiasm, and that’s end up acquiring nothing.
So, for myself I consider that the teacher's style at teaching is very important, the teacher needs to encourage me, to give me the purpose behind learning that new thing and to have a lot of visual aids that help me to be more concentrated and motivated to learn and thus acquire the language without difficulties and to be able to use it.