Learner styles refer to individual preferred method of acquiring and absorbing new information. There are many ways to divide learning styles but the large categories revolved around hearing, seeing, physical activity, individual or social interaction and musical or artistic aspect.
I prefer the visual learning, because I'm one of the people who cannot learn something until they have seen it. The visual learning had really facilitated my second language learning success, watching TV in a young age had really helped me in acquiring my second language through hearing and seeing the translation at the same time and through seeing the scene and the act that suggest the meaning of the word. So it could include the auditory learning but mostly it was visual learning. During the school period when the teachers were using the visual teaching it worked for me it facilitated understanding the material. Actually I'm still using the visual learning to improve my second language.
Attitude and motivation, it was mentioned in the chapter that it is not easy to determine whether positive attitudes produce successful learning or successful learning engenders positive attitude, or both are affected by other factors. But in my case it really does, actually I have a positive attitude towards the English language and I think it produced a successful learning it gave me the willingness to keep learning. On the other hand I have a problem with the Hebrew language at first I was having a negative attitude towards the Hebrew language so I was not willing to learn Hebrew so it didn't produce successful learning, and then when I tried to learn Hebrew (speaking, writing) I didn't succeed so the negative attitude towards Hebrew had returned to my life.
With regard to motivation, my motivation to learn English had always been. At first it was just integrative motivation that I want to learn English for personal growth and cultural enrichment through contact with speakers of other language but then when I decided to became an English teacher it added another motivation and it's called instrumental motivation (language learning for immediate or practical goals). However with the Hebrew it differs at first I didn't have any motivation, but when I began learning in the collage I started to have a motivation at first my attitude towards Hebrew language had changed it became a positive attitude. My motivation towards Hebrew is integrative because I started to engage with people who speak only Hebrew and I need to communicate with them and so on. So after having a positive attitude towards Hebrew I started to have a motivation then it gave the willingness to learn Hebrew.
Personality, actually I don't have a very strong personality in some situations I become nervous and in others I become anxious so I didn't have the willingness to communicate. But now I'm trying to improve it I'm trying to become more confident less anxious and actually I think that I'm making a progress because now I'm trying to communicate with others with different languages not my mother tongue.