In this course "Second language acquisition", we discussed and focused on different learners' characteristics and how they can be related to success in second language learning. We discussed also how do these different traits may affect the learners' second language acquisition process either in a positive or in a negative way. While discussing these characteristics I noticed that I have some of them, and they really help. I knew before I learned this course that I have these traits, but I didn't recognize that they have a direct effect on my language acquisition process, tell the time that I learned this course. The first characteristic that I have is the ability to learn quickly, which means that I have a high aptitude. This trait can help me to learn with greater ease and speed. It helps me especially when I have an exam and I have to study for it in a short time. In addition, it can help me to improve my language faster. For example in one year, I made a big change and investment in my language learning process, I enrich my vocabulary and gained different skills. Another trait that helps me in my language acquisition process is being an extroverted person, which means that I like to communicate with other people and to talk with them; this trait made me a better user of English language. I think that this characteristic important for second language acquisition, it helps me a lot. When I communicate with other people I can know the correct pronunciation of different words, in addition, it encourages me to try and to talk. When a person uses the language and make mistakes he can learn better, and he can learn from his mistakes. Another trait that might be different from those I mentioned, is anxiety feeling of worry, this characteristic hindered my second language learning success in some cases, because for me it is hard to be focused under pressure, so I can't do my best when I'm nervous. However, I think that this trait is not always bad in some cases it can facilitate the learning process by increasing attention. I have to mention that also motivation has an important role in my second language acquisition, which was the most important thing that encouraged me to continue and to work harder despite all the difficulties that I faced. I get this motivation, from my parents, some lectures and my classmates, they made me feel more confident and to believe in myself. The more a person get motivation, the more he\she can advance and succeed. The same way I was motivated by others, I will do in my plan as a future teacher; I will also motivate my future students in order to encourage them to do their best.
We should remember that people are different, not all of them have the same characteristics, and not all of them learn in the same way. Each one of us might know his\her own characteristics, and to know which of them can help him\her, and which of them may be as an obstacle in his\her learning process.