Learners need to study English as a foreign language in order to communicate with people around the world, and to learn about different cultures and places. However, learning and acquiring English as a foreign language is usually quite difficult for most learners, especially if their written and spoken systems are different from English.
Therefore, learner characteristics come to play an important role in facilitating acquiring and learning English as a foreign language. For example: from my own experience, when I was a child, I got the opportunity to study the letters, numbers and animals… in an English course before attending school. After taking this course, English has become my favorite language.
I started to study English at age nine; the teacher wrote letters on the board and asked us to repeat what we hear as well, then she asked us to copy them into our notebooks. At the begging studying the language seemed difficult for my classmates and I, because the letters and sounds are so different from our Arabic primary language. However. One learner characteristic that helped me in acquiring English as a foreign language is ‘language learning aptitude’ because I was able to remember the structure of the letters and the sounds as well. In addition, almost in every lesson the teacher starts to play certain songs as an exposure to the English language, at that time learning was fun and very flexible. While everyone was singing or repeating a song, the teacher stopped the audio and asked me to sing the song that we were listening to, in front of the class. At that moment, I started to sing and everyone was amazed and listing to me happily, after I stopped sinning everybody clapped his hands and said: “you have a beautiful voice” and the teacher said: "I am proud of you Yara! You’re talented and I am really glad that you were able to memorize the song’s vocabulary".
Studying English is considered a difficult task in general, since learners in the past did not have any access to the internet, and their only exposure to the language was the teacher, this can be problematic, especially if the teacher is not an English native speaker.
As a student at school, I used to get the highest grades in English; I simply was in love with this language I wanted to learn more about it, so I choose to read books about the language in general, which is a similar source to what I study at school. I also read books that included English articles and texts, this was a good practice that helped me in developing my writing and reading skills. Moreover, being a student who was motivated to study languages was an advantage when studying English. I used to memorize the core meaning sense of a word instantly after the first exposure in class. However, this year I understood why the human receptive system is greater than the productive system. In addition, I realized that some word are used in certain contexts and that we have words that their sounds are very different from their written form.
To conclude, learner characteristics are very important and learners need to develop it order to study any language successfully. Therefore, English teachers need to focus on designing activities that will help in promoting the learners’ characteristics and that will facilitate studying English at the same time by giving students a good practice that includes a lot of repetition in reading and writing, this way will help learners of English in enhancing their skills and in mastering the language better.