Learning characteristics is an important factor in achieving learning in general, and specifically in second language learning as we discussed in class. As we are demanded, I shall write about my learning characteristics, learning style and personality.
We have two types of intelligence; verbal linguistic intelligence and mathematical intelligence. Personally, I see myself much better in verbal linguistic learning than mathematical intelligence. Each person has his different ability and different type of intelligence that he chooses to follow and do all what it takes to achieve success and to guarantee that his or her learning is done on best ground. I choose verbal intelligence to follow because I believe that it is very important for self-growth and for expressing feelings and by expressing feelings pressure is gets less and this might help in achieving success mush faster. In addition, I see verbal intelligence more important for communicating and sharing knowledge with other cultures, and thus it’s more important for language students in general and for second language learning.
Furthermore, we have more than one style of learning. Learning style refers to an individual’s natural, habitual, and preferred way of absorbing, processing, and retaining new information and skills (Reid 1995). My learning style is a complex of many of its types. I see myself as Visual and auditory learner; when it comes to classes I prefer visual learning and I see that enhances my understanding and helps me to remember the materials further. Moreover, auditory learning is very important to me when it comes to exam periods; I use this style when we have to memorize somethings with the materials. So, I read and then say what I’ve read again and again or I study with someone that knows the materials, by talk, we usually study on the phone and it helps me to memorize facts and information.
On other hand, identity and personality has a great effect on speaking or mastering second language orally. Since we have a complex in our country about the Palestinian Israeli conflict I guess that it might affect accent and fluency. Some people are proud of their Palestinian or Arab identity and they make sure that it is clear when in it comes to their second language accent. I seek my accent as a clear accent without aiming that my accent to be more like American or British accent.
In addition, there is an important factor of identity and personality; anxiety. We have two types of anxiety; trait anxiety vs. state anxiety. Trait anxiety is a more permanent predisposition to be anxious. State anxiety is a type of anxiety experienced in relation to some particular event or act; temporary and context-specific. I have state anxiety when it comes to having an exam. When I have an exam the first half hour I forget everything, everything becomes blank, I don’t remember anything, and my hands start sweating and my hearts beats fast. Thus, my grades might be affected.
Another important part of personality is motivation and aptitude. Aptitude is the ability to learn quickly, memorize new words; if the teaching has memorizing then aptitude will be good, especially in second language learning for example new words expressions and etc. I think that, aptitude is really needed for accomplishing learning.
To conclude, I think that many factors support and facilitates or hindered second language learning. As mentioned before personality factors such anxiety might hinder or affect my grades in some subjects. Motivation and aptitude factors facilitate learning and make it easier.