There are individual differences that inherent in the learner that can predict success or failure in language learning. Such differences may be based on our experience. English is a foreign language for me; I started learning English at the age of 8, it is an obligatory material to learn in Israeli schools until 12th grade. I had no difficulty to learn it, I was enjoying learning a new language and being able to speak it. I enjoyed learning vocabulary and grammar. At the age of 21, I started the first year of studying English at Arab college; I have learned many things about the language, in addition, my English has improved. There are some characteristics that help me success in learning a foreign language: intelligence, learning styles, and attitudes and motivation. In this paper, I am going to discuss each characteristic and how it has affected me in learning the foreign language English.
First, according to Gardner (1993) there are multiple intelligences. I think verbal intelligence is one kind of intelligence that I have, and it is an important intelligence for learning languages. Verbal intelligence is the ability to analyze information and solve problems using language-based reasoning. I get used to listen to English songs, and watch movies translated to Arabic, this help me understand and use language based reasoning with fiction tests. Verbal intelligence helps me success with the courses that require analysis.
Second, according to Reid (1995) learning style is defined as an individual’s natural, habitual, and preferred ways of absorbing, processing, and retaining new information and skills. There are three kinds of learners: visual learners; they learn better when they see the material, auditory learners; they learn better when they hear, and kinesthetic learners; they learn better when they do a physical action. Even I can understand well information heard, I think that I belong to the group of “visual learners”. In some cases, when any material does not require deep understanding, I can be satisfied with only exposed auditory. However, in the cases where I need to memorize for the test and deeply understand the material I need to be exposed to the material visually in order to understand better. So I usually read the material by myself, and look for additional information in the internet; such as video illustrating a non-clear idea.
In addition, attitude and motivation is one of the characteristics that facilitate my learning of English as a foreign language. There are two kinds of motivation: first, instrumental motivation; language learning for immediate or practical goals. Second, integrative motivation; language learning for personal growth and cultural enrichment through contact with speakers of the other language. When I was in school, I had the integrative motivation, I was willing to speak English in order to communicate with my relatives that come yearly from abroad, I felt that English is a valuable means that needed to be learned and use it to communicate with different peoples around the world. For these reasons I was highly motivated to concentrate in the English lessons in the school, despite some English teachers were using the traditional method of teaching. After I graduated from the school, I turned to have the instrumental motivation, I started thinking of my goals, I wanted to be an English teacher as a career. In addition, I want to change students’ perspective of learning English. I am highly motivated to achieve my goal; my family always supports me and encourages me to continue in this field.
For conclusion, there are differences existing in each language learner that hint either to success or to lack of success. There are some characteristics help me success in language learning: verbal intelligence, being an auditory learner, and instrumental and integrative motivation. However, these characteristics could be an obstacle for other learners.