Throughout the first semester we looked closely of learners' characteristics and how it has a correlation to second language learning. Learners' characteristics include: intelligence, aptitude, learning styles, personality, motivation, attitude, and other. These individual characteristics might have essential role in succeed in learning a second language, for a simple reason if one is aware of his own characteristics he she will be able to know where is his/ her strong areas and where to invest more effort.
In this paper I would like to reflect on one of my personal characteristics, which is the auditory learning style. Back to my first year at college where the teaching style is different from the teaching style at school- where students have time to listen and then write- I noticed that I prefer to listen to the lecturer and to write some notes, however other students were coping/ writing word by word, which I couldn’t understand why is this so. In this course, introduction to second language acquisition explained to me and made things clear. Now I am aware of what my individual characteristics are, and that being different is fine when you make the right use of it. What I mean is that when I want to concentrate and understand I make sure that I am listening clearly enough. On the other side, what I recognize is that emphasizing on this skill and not to practice writing enough as others do, I felt I preform less proficient in spelling.
My learning style influenced my learning English as a second language as the following, first practicing listening to the language enhanced my speaking fluency. Listening to the language make me know how most words are used in the language, besides to that knowing the meaning from context without looking up in the dictionary enriched my skill of speaking that I can use the language without knowing all words.
However, nothing is perfect, beside to my strength points, I have growth areas, where I still have to work harder and efficient to show balance in my oral and writing performance. Focusing on one learning style is not that much effective, that means I still have to practice more reading and writing to fill the brief gap in my performance which I started to practice the moment I realized that there is a potential to do so.
To conclude, in this course I am more conscious of my individual differences, for my strengths and growth areas as a learner but it is highly important to mention that this knowledge raises my awareness as a teacher- student where I should apply this knowledge when I prepare my lesson plans, variety in activities or tasks benefit all.
My last words are that we all are equal but everyone is different. It is important for teachers to understand the differences in their students’ learning styles, so that they can implement best practice strategies into their lessons.