Learners of foreign language acquire language in different ways and each learner has some characteristics that help him to acquire a language that is different from other learners. These characteristics are: intelligence, aptitude, learning styles, personality, attitude and motivation, beliefs, and age. I, as a learner of a foreign language have some of these characteristics that help me in the learning process and some that I think may hinder me.
First, I will start with the aptitude. When I face a word for the first time I can memorise it fast, in addition identifying its form and sometimes I look for the bound morpheme and then the free morpheme (word family), and I try to guess what does it mean which help me learn the new word faster. I use this technique and it helps me a lot.
Second, in the learning style, I find myself independent of my learning process, I learn more when I am independent and search for information myself. In addition, when I face a new word I go to Google pictures, write the word, see different pictures and try to guess its meaning before translating it, listening to its sound with repeating after listening to it, and in the end I read the examples (the sentences). In addition, when I teach my 7th grade's students I use pictures (visual aids) in teaching vocabulary because it engage the students and if later on they forget the word, I ask them do you remember this picture that you saw? What was it about? What was the word that we used to describe it? And eventually they came to remember it.
Third is motivation and attitude, in my opinion they play an important role in the learning process. When I put an aim in order to achieve it I motivate and encourage myself so I can achieve it, and that is the same in the learning process. For example, even if I face something hard I keep saying to myself that I can do it, and thus I work harder than before. Sometimes I motivate myself with imagining my dreams and where I always wanted to be in the future, and by this I gain my strength to keep going and in the end I reach where I want to be.
Fourth, I think that beliefs plays a role in acquiring the foreign language, for example, in Israel, we need to learn Hebrew to communicate with other and I hated doing that because if the beliefs, and whenever I heard someone from my family such as my sisters and cousins use Hebrew in our daily talk I tell them to not do it and I to forbid myself from using them. And the outcome of that I was not able to get that high score in Hebrew and sometime problem in speaking to other in Hebrew and not feeling confident. So the beliefs can affects the learner learning process of the second/ foreign language.
Fifth is the personality, I take myself as the adventurous type and the one who takes risks, these qualities allows me to acquire the language. In addition, in high school I had friends in Facebook who speak English and by talking to them and seeing how they use English, I learned a lot from them, such as how words are written, when they are used, they can have different meanings, asking questions about English and other things and in which they can correct the errors, etc. So being exposed to speakers of the foreign language plays a role in the learning process. In addition to that the learner should practice speaking the foreign language and communicate with other face to face in order to master the language more, for example, as I said in my learning experience of Hebrew I was not confident in speaking but when I started worked for a year between Jewish people I acquired the language better (so being exposed and more social will help in learning the target language).