Learner characteristics are an important component in second language acquisition. It's essential to create a dynamic learning environment, and being aware of your characteristics as a learner helps you go through a successful learning journey. In this essay, I intend to present some of my own characteristics.
One of the most sensible characteristics I have is being an introverted learner. Mostly, I think this characteristic has hindered my learning success because I don't feel comfortable to speak and participate among a group even if I know that I'm good. When I have company, I'm too aware of the people around me and I'm worried that I wouldn't sound good. For instance, in lectures sometimes I have questions or ideas to share, but I prefer to keep it to myself. On the other hand, when I'm alone and I practice speaking I can speak fluently and with an excellent accent. Unfortunately, this characteristic inhibits me from showing and developing my abilities when it comes to second language acquisition. Being a good speaker when no one is around isn't much helpful in developing a language.
In addition, another characteristic that accomplishes the previous one is anxiety. I feel anxious when I have to speak in front of people; as a result I concentrate more on the words and grammar I use more than the accent itself. However, I feel more comfortable if the group I have to talk in front of is smaller, or if I know the people in the group. It also depends on the subject, if it's a topic I'm sure that I have competent in and can express my ideas fluently with no need of much thinking.
When it comes to learning styles, I'm a visual learner I need to see everything that I hear. For example, if someone read something to me even if it's a small paragraph, I feel like I skip most of the words. I also find it difficult to read a long with someone, I need silent reading. Now, in college most of the lecturers use presentations and visual aids so it's easier to follow them. But back in school, teachers almost never use presentations or visual aids, and that I think one of the main reasons why students don't understand and also why they get bored in classes.
Another characteristic I would like to talk about is motivation. Although people who know me might not see that I have it since I almost don't participate, but I do. It's hard to notice my motivation because I'm an introverted learner. But I am learning this language despite of the negative traits I have. Acquiring a language isn't just about speaking, it's also about writing and understanding and I know I good at those.
To conclude, being exposed to learning characteristics helped me as a learner and as a teacher. As a learner I'm now aware of my own traits and I'm aware of how to enhance some of them or change them. As a teacher, I'm aware that my students have different capabilities and understand and learn different topics in a different pace. Therefore, I have to accommodate each lesson according to their needs.