Starting with intelligence, well, that is something I can't personally say anything about. I've never taken an IQ test, so I can't really reflect on it.
Same thing with aptitude, I can't really reflect on it. Even though Arabic is my first language, English has always been a part of my life. Ever since I was kid, watching TV or movies, listening to music, it was always in English, and with time it became easier and easier to absorb anything in English. I even used to tell everyone that I hated Arabic. My brother and I, most of the time talked and we still talk in English. Thinking about it now, I don’t know where did all this come from, my love and passion for English, and the fact that I was always motivated to do anything as long as it was in English.
My love for the language increased my motivation to learn it, that's what I think mostly facilitated learning it more efficiently. And like I said, I can't explain this love or motivation, I still ask myself everyday how and where did it come from. My parents sometimes joke around and argue, my mom would this all came from her side of the family and my dad would say the same thing, and it all ends up being a hilarious argument.
Another point I mentioned is the fact that it all started when I was kid, I think in early elementary school. So looking at the age of acquisition, it started from an early age and I think that facilitated learning the language. What I knew about the language, and how I spoke English at that age, in addition to doing everything in English, from watching TV or movies to listening music, surprised everyone around me.
Two characteristics that didn’t really affect me, are the identity and ethnic group affiliation or learner beliefs. Both neither hindered nor facilitated the whole thing of learning the language. When it came to it, even though sometimes I wished everyone around me can speak English so I can use it more, it still didn’t really hinder anything. I surrounded myself with English books and short stories, movies in English, listened to music only in English, and to my luck and I thank God for this point, is the fact that my brother and sister turned out to be good in English too, they didn’t have the same passion that I did for the language, but still they were really good and we actually considered it to be our thing, so most of the time we only spoke in English, that’s one of the most special things about our childhood.
Lastly, I want to talk about "learning styles". Again when it comes to learning the language, I never really cared whether it was visual, auditory or any style of learning as long as it was in English. I remember in school, English lessons, were the best part of my school day, no matter what the teacher taught us or how.