Second-language learning, like English, is very important; it can open so many doors. There are more job opportunities, more chances to learn about different countries, and more potential friends. Not everyone is able to successfully learn a foreign language, maybe because it is too hard, or because they don’t have enough time to study it. But on the other hand, there are several people who have mastered foreign languages and have become quite fluent in them.
There are some people who seem to learn languages faster than others. It is because they possess certain traits and characteristics that help them; such as intelligence, responsibility, personality, and other characteristics. In this course "second language acquisition," we discussed and focused on different learners' characteristics and how they can help us success in second language learning. In the future, I will be an English teacher, so in the beginning, I faced some difficulties with this language, such as my pronunciation, understanding, speaking, etc. But later, and because of some learner characteristics, the second language learning became easier, I improved myself and succeeded in this language because of these characteristics that helped me by facilitating it to me.
I realized that I can learn from my mistakes, trials, and errors. So from my experiences, I will make sure not to repeat the same mistakes over and over again. For example, as a teacher, I had some pronunciation mistakes, I enunciate the word interviewed incorrectly, but because of my mentor’s notes, I knew what the correct pronunciation of this word was, so I never repeated my fault again. I am also a good guesser; I can guess the meaning of the word depending on the context of the sentence even if I can’t understand each and every word in it. Inferring and eliciting the words or the meaning of the words by myself would certainly help me learn other languages and in this way, I will memorize these words by heart; it’ll automatically make it impossible for me to forget them.
Moreover, I have self-confidence which I have obtained from the encouragement of my family, my friends and also my lecturers. They all have told me that I can do it, that I can succeed and improve myself. All these sources of support made me believe in myself and that I can advance in my major too. So with self-confidence, motivation and practice, it has been easier for me to do well in my studies.
As for practice, it is a very important, essential, good, and useful way to succeed and advance. I love to practice; it helps me understand better and it facilitates my study further. And as a teacher, I prefer to practice what I need to say and do before my lessons because this will help me keep the mistakes that I might make to the minimal; it will make me more comfortable, and confident. So the more I practice, the more fluent I will become in a second language.
In addition, there are people that have the motivation to learn this language because it is required, while others learn it because they expect to use it in their future career, and I have the motivation to learn this language because I truthfully love it. It is the first, international, and formal language in the world, and I will use it frequently if I want to travel, for my career, and to communicate with different people from various countries and cultures.
To conclude, second language acquisition could be very useful for us for several reasons that I mentioned previously, but not everyone can succeed in learning it, and there are some people that are able learn it faster than others because of their characteristics that facilitate it for them.