People differ in many ways, their differences may affect their success in their learning or work, individual traits may be inborn or acquired, in my essay, I am going to reflect on three factors intelligence, aptitude and motivation and attitudes.
These factors may make one learner more successful than another.
Firstly, Intelligence:
I feel that the term "intelligence" is important but is not the main term, because sometimes the materials or the topics we learn need practice, intelligence is not enough, I feel that I need more practice and not to depend only on intelligence.
However, I cannot negate the importance of high IQ score; also sometimes intelligence is preferable on practice, for instance: In some courses that I am learning such as Linguistics, in this course intelligence is not enough, I need to memorize and review the material before, but sometime intelligence is needed it depends on the topics or the materials I learn.
Related to learning L2, I feel that this characteristic (intelligence) did not facilitate my second language learning obviously.
The second characteristic is the aptitude; the aptitude refers to the ability to learn quickly. As an English learner this characteristic seems to me more likely, I feel that this personal characteristic makes me learn with good ease and speed. For instance, when I hear some information that related to sounds or grammatical rules, it sticks in my mind and whenever I hear something related to these topics that I learned before I memorize the information automatically, in addition, the characteristic aptitude facilitated my second language learning I felt that this characteristic was more likely than intelligence.
The third term is motivation and attitudes, motivation and attitude provide impetus to initiate learning second language. Lack of attention to these factors can lead to inefficiencies in learning L2 this term considers from the most important terms. As an English learner when I exist in a motivate atmosphere I feel that I could produce more, because the atmosphere itself effects on my achievements. When the teacher teaches or discusses a relevant topic to the students age and level, the students produce more and take part in the lesson more, using these factors in the lesson are very useful and they effects on my attention positively. This characteristic eased my ability to learn L2, especially when the instructor gave us examples from reality that related to L2, or comparing second language and the mother tongue, this HOT I can consider it as a motivation practice or question because it really motivates me to take part and engage.
To conclude, I found that the characteristics motivation and attitude and the aptitude is the most two characteristics that facilitated learning L2, but I did not find the characteristic intelligence a facilitator term and not a pinching term too, it was between, however I would not depend on intelligence in order to learn L2.