As we learned in chapter 3 about the learners’ characteristics and how they related to learn a second language to success, we noticed that learners of a second language face many situations when they acquire the language, they face many challenges.
While learning a second language each learner faces different difficulty or ability from others.
We talked about a lot of characteristics of the learners such as: intelligence, aptitude, personality and more.
Aptitude is one of the learners’ characteristics that requires high ability to learn quickly. A learner with a high aptitude can explore and learn the language easier and quicker than those who have lower aptitude, however, other learners of lower aptitude may success if they preserve.
To be able to learn a second language, it requires the ability to speak, and in order to speak the learners must have a good pronunciation that will make their speech understandable and clear.
Through the ability of acquiring the language the learner will acquire the skills of reading, speaking, writing and listening, which are beneficial skills that the learner should know. Moreover, practicing the language the learner wants to learn help the learner to speak the language which is important to communicate with others and make his pronunciation clear.
As in acquiring a second language or any different language, the learners face problems and make mistakes such as spelling and pronunciation, they have to practice in order to spell the letter right and write it correctly also.
As I said before, we have two types of aptitudes; a high aptitude and a lower aptitude, if I want to fit myself in one of them, I would choose the lower one, I do not have a high aptitude which requires an ability to recognize and memorize words especially in a second language such as English which is totally different from my native language which is Arabic.
As in Arabic and other languages like English, there are the 4th skills of reading, writing, listening and speaking, if we look at these 4th skills starting from acquiring the alphabet which are totally different in Arabic and English, we can notice the difference in letters and sounds, in addition we have 3 ways of writing the letters in Arabic, the first letter, the middle letter and the last letter of the words, while in English we have two ways of writing the letters; capitals and smalls, moreover, we use the capital letters in suitable situations which are not there in Arabic.
Furthermore, English as a second language is not that difficult to me even if it is a second language and different from my first language, because I enjoy learning this language, I like to communicate with others, especially native speakers of English, also I enjoy reading novels and stories in English, listen to songs, these two ways helps me to acquire the language in an enjoyable way.
To sum up, in second language such as English or any different language there are always problems and difficulties the learner faces to acquire the language, many learners suffer from pronunciation, others from writing and others from both.