Studying English as a foreign language started at the age of nine as being a third grade student at school. The teacher at the time dedicated the majority of class time for audio exposure and emphasized the mimicry and memory approach; she used to pronounce the letters and the students repeated what they heard as well as a set of self-introductory lines and questions used during random first encounters with strangers; certain songs were rehearsed repeatedly during every lessons. At this very first stage of exposure to the target language, learning was enjoyable, very flexible and remembering was not a challenge. However, being a young- eager- diligent learner necessitates a more enlarged directed input, which could have fastened the learning process, in addition being a child at the time with no access to the internet and the teacher's preference to achieve equality on the expense of excellence should have made it such a hard task.
On later stages, the language was still at its very underdeveloped stages, but still according to the curriculum and the school evaluating system, the needed skills at this particular age were well-acquired (I always used to get high grades in English exams). However, over the following years, the input shrank; lessons were dedicated to teach the grammatical forms repeatedly even when some students gained full mastery at the time. Moreover, sufficient comprehension tools were neglected and time was not properly invested for such techniques; thus, understanding the course book`s texts solely was a struggle; the teacher used to read and translate to the mother tongue. Yet surprisingly I continued to get high grades until undergoing the Metsav exam, which was more thorough detecting various skills.
Unfortunately, during middle school, testing was only pointed at reading comprehension yet not having the techniques to deal with it, pronunciation and listening comprehension were almost not practiced at all. Meeting one learner from another class at the time when the teacher wanted to show us what good reading sounds like was enough to evoke self-investment and solo work. Being a diligent-competitive learner facilitated studying the language; I worked on enhancing my reading skills by extensive repetitive reading of texts studied at school;
Later on, the passion to learn the language itself motivated me to look for other affluent sources providing linguistic samples, which I could use to compare with the ones I produce. For example, movies and songs. Noticing the patterns used by native speakers helped me to improve the ones I formulated, to study new words and mostly practicing fluency; since I had no one to speak with; I used to talk to myself to practice producing the different sounds as the native speakers do.
Being a student who was passionate towards learning languages in general, was an advantage when studying English. There was no need to minimize the vocabulary rehearsal periods if needed at all; I used to memorize the core meaning sense of a word instantly after the first exposure in class. However, after studying the vocabulary course at the college, I understand now why the number of words I know receptively is larger than the ones I know productively; more focus should have been put on the different aspects of knowing a word. After high school, I became more aware of the fact that I learn better how to use words I understand productively through real social interaction, where I have a real speaker who reacts to my produced language messages by stating his own.
Spelling was an issue when the accessed input at one point was mainly auditory. Many words I totally grasped and used well I could not write correctly; I could identify written forms but writing it myself was a struggle. This issue was prevalent when studying to the psychometric exam; there was a demanding need to study an enormous amount of words in a short period of time; the exam did not detect spelling in any form; the writing task was only in Arabic; so it was time saving not to put much emphasis on the written form . Later, I started to invest more time to master spelling; because as an eager learner I could not accept it for myself not to be able to write correctly a language I am passionate about.
After attending the college, my writing become more coherent as well as my spelling. The different courses dedicated to present broadly the grammatical structures and the continuous daily exposure to the language and having a real social interaction, moved my language mastery to a different level.
At the end, being a passionate-eager- independent learner since the early stages of studying the language was the main reason leading to acquire the second language. Motivation was central to the overall process while taking language learning as a competition, self-dedication to provide a profound diverse language resources and the will to gain mastery of different accents. Getting high grades in English was not the ultimate goal anymore instead; passion to speak coherently when meeting my role model actors and singers was the drive. Obstacles were on the way, as the non-sufficient input and the struggle to look for opportunities for testing the linguistic repertoire were present. Nevertheless, considering studying languages as a discovering journey while being fascinated about each studying stage and challenge reinforced my acquirement of the second language.