There are individual differences that are deep-rooted in the learner can predict success or failure in language learning. Such differences may be based on our experience. I am a second year student; I speak two foreign languages – Hebrew and English. I started learning both languages in the third grade, it was not my choice to learn these two languages. I speak Hebrew a lot in communicative situations because I live in a country where Hebrew is the first language. However, I speak English less and just while learning or teaching, but I read a lot for gaining information and also for enjoyment. My family members know how to speak Hebrew very well, but none of them knows English. In school, I was enjoying the vocabulary lessons, but I was not motivated for learning grammar. In addition, I was a successful student in all the subjects and get high grades all the time. Through my studying period I saw some personal characteristics that facilitated and or hindered my second language learning success.
First, attitude and motivation is one of the characteristics that facilitates my second learning success, the positive attitude and motivation really helped me in having the willingness to keep learning, in order to perceive the communicative value, and to succeed. From my own experience motivation is highly important in the classrooms, in my learning the classrooms are comfortable, and the place is enjoying for coming to, because of the interesting content that suits our level, age and ability. In addition to the teachers who keep motivating us and encouraging us to keep going in what we are doing, praising us, arousing curiosity and attention, participating us in class through group/pair work while teaching and providing us with activities that are interesting and related to what we are learning. All this affected my second language learning success, because I was all the time motivated for learning in class which that charmed me in keeping learning in the correct direction.
Another characteristic was clear in my success in learning a second language is the learning style; which is the individual's natural and preferred way(s) of absorbing, processing and retaining new information and skills. For example: I am a good learner when I see, which means I fall into the group that called the "visual" learners. My achievements will be less if I didn’t see videos and/or pictures related to my material in the course and vice versa. I think that the style in each learner helps a lot for succeeding in learning a second language. When the period of exams comes I go back to each video/picture that we have discussed it in class, and gradually I start remembering everything we have discussed.
In contrast, the personality was an obstacle through my learning – I am a learner that all the time feel worried, nervous, stressed and anxious about learning a second language. And the biggest anxious and stress is while communicating in the L2 and presenting in front of the class, which affects my second learning success. I always prepare myself, but when it comes the time to present I start to feel worried and stressed, which I don’t present as I prepare. But recently I started to overcome this obstacle and make it positive, through exploiting this anxious to make high efforts on studying and preparing well in order to be more confident and relaxed.
At the end, these characteristics can be found in the learner to help him in learning a second language, exactly how the characteristics that I have mentioned above facilitated my learning. However, sometimes these characteristics may be some obstacles for us but we need to overcome these obstacles in order to achieve better in learning a second language without letting any characteristic affects us negatively.