On Sunday 27th of May, I and my classmate Taghreed presented a short story called The Tell-Tale Heart by Edgar Allan Poe. We started to prepare for our presentation two weeks before. We work and collaborate with each other in order to complete what we are supposed to do.
When we came to the class, we started our presentation with a short background information about the author in order to give students background information about the story and its writer, the thing that can affect their understanding of the story. Then we reviewed the story events by acting a scene with the help of some students, we used this way instead of giving them a summary of the story, because we want to attract them and in order to make the story more interesting. It was a different experience and I think it works because all the students were watching and paying attention to the story's events. Then we moved to introduce the story's characters first by asking them about the characters that they have seen in the scene, in addition, we gave them description and analysis about each character. After explaining the characters, we moved to the setting, narration, the plot structure and themes. Then we take a quote from the story and we analyzed it to them in order to teach them to read between the liners and to analyze. But in the future I will do it in a different way, I will let them try to analyze the quote on their own and in their own perspective, then I will give them my own analysis. At the end of the presentation, we did another small activity in order to review figures of speech, we quoted 3 quotes from the story and we wrote them on the screen then we ask them to read the quotes and to try to identify the figures of speech used in these quotes.
I was satisfied with what I have done; it helped me to experience teaching short stories, which is a new experience for me. If I will change it in the future, I will pay attention more to the grammatical mistakes and pronunciation, furthermore to be more energetic from the beginning until the end of the presentation. In addition, if I will have more time (more than 20 minutes) I will create more discussion in order to give students the opportunity to speak and to use language and to strengthen their analyzing ability.