In my presentation, the lecturer started the class by introducing my partner (Razan) and me to the whole class, we began to present the story and briefly explain the content of it, and we referred to all the requirements that we were asked to mention on the presentation.
After a long search and a quick reading of the various stories that the lecturer determined for us, we found a touching story called The Shawl. During the work, we agreed that we would both read the story and that each would sum it up in her own way, then we read the two summaries together and we reached a joint agreement that we will present in front of the class.
One of the difficulties I encountered during this assignment before presenting was to find the central and most important point in the story such as Symbolism and Imagery. In addition, to make it as much as possible understandable for the class.
On the other hand, because we practiced a lot on our course and were asked to do lot of assignments almost every week I felt that the easiest thing I did was my part to analyze the story according to the elements of the short story we have learned such as the plot structure diagram and the characters analysis.
Even though I had some difficulties during the performance, which I needed to improve such as; to raise my voice, increase my self-confidence, and even try to move while elaborating concepts. Nevertheless, I felt that everything I explained was clear, I always asked questions, stopped at the time of explanation, and asked the students to read something from the presentation and explain it to make sure they do understood.
I also think that the design of the presentation was quite pretty and clear, we did not write so much on slides, that this is a very important part in presenting each lesson in front of a class.
I always try to improve what was missing and what the lecturer recommended to me to improve and pay attention to, and of course, in the things I was good at, I will try to be even more controlling and even better in them.