Reflection
My partner and I worked on the presentation together, I went to Amal's house and together we started doing the presentation. First we read the story and explained together the new words then we started doing the rest of the presentation for example the settings, the characters and we analyzed each character and so on. Furthermore, we performed and reviewed the presentation together.
In the class, when it was our turn to present and as for myself, I think that I did a good job (not too perfect and not too weak). I think I did a good performance because I was not nervous nor afraid, but I was confident, and that made me happy because I am developing my character, because when I first stood in front of the class and with a lot of people in front of me and all of them are looking at me I get nervous. But, on this presentation it was the opposite. However, I think I did not do well on the pronunciations part, as I sometimes pronounce some of the words incorrectly, however I am working on it that’s by listening to the pronunciation.
In addition, there are things that I would have changed. First the information about the writer is to long but in the sometimes it was beneficial. But I was not able to connect the information on it to the story'' The Necklace'', therefore in the next time I will try to limit the information and explain and connect the information about the author life to the story more. Second, there is a slide about the plot of the story that contain a lot of information inside it, however I did not divide it to many slides so the students can read it from one slide. However it was not a good thing. And I realized it when we were presenting, me and as a student I will be bored if I read it and then I will not concentrate. So for that I would like to divide my slide more correctly and put them in more interesting ways.
To conclude, as it was my first step to the teacher profession, it was a very good experiment for me. In addition I learned a lot from it, such as, how to stand in front of the class, how to behave, etc. and for the next time I will be sure that I can do better and improve myself to the better.