My presentation was about the short story “The Mouse", by Saki. I presented it with my colleague Tamam, the presentation was structured into two parts: presenting the story, and doing a creative activity. I am going to talk about my feelings while preparing the story and while presenting it, in addition I want to talk about my goals for improvement.
Tamam and I prepared the presentation, we read the story together and after that we analyzed it and wrote important information. It was not easy to analyze the whole story without the help of the teacher; especially our story has had a lot of difficult words. In the beginning I felt lost but later on and after we translated the difficult words I started feeling better. Working in pairs was enjoyable; it decreases stress so I felt comfortable, and I was satisfied with choosing her as a colleague we worked wisely, and divided the speech equally.
On the day of presenting the story I was feeling satisfied, excited and happy, but later on when came the time to present I felt nervous, but hopefully I controlled my nervous without anyone noticing. When I started talking immediately I felt confident and I was satisfied with my voice; it was loud and clear although some pronunciation mistakes. However, when we did the activity I was not much satisfied I think it was not creative as the teacher wanted it to be.
As a result, my goals to improve: first, I have to double check the grammatical mistakes, there were few mistakes on the slides of the presentation and one on the activity question. Second, I need to improve my pronunciation by listening to the difficult words on the internet more than one time in until I pronounce it well. Third, I have to minimize material on the slides; so I should write less and talk more.
To conclude, I believe that I have the ability to control the nervous and speak without feeling frustrated. In addition, I can deliver my speech with effective voice and eye contact. However, I have to be aware of grammatical issues, pronunciation, and minimizing material on the slides.