My partner Muna and I presented a short story called "The Mouse" by Saki, our teaching was through a short presentation about the story, and an activity. Through our working on the presentation, I felt the joy and the difficulties at the same time while preparing the story. I saw in myself good points that it had changed in me, and also there are still points that I would like to improve it, in the next presentations.
Muna and I prepared the presentation together, we worked through steps, That facilitated out work, we read the story and explained it, through reading about the author, and the background information about the story, and we wrote what we found it important, to presented for the class. The story words were not easy, it was difficult on Muna and I to understand the story without a dictionary, and without reading the summary of the story. But after we looked up for the difficult words in the dictionary with the word’s definition, it was easier to understand the whole story, I really like that we worked in pairs, it made the work funnier and more exciting, because we share all the work together and we don’t just work alone, I really enjoyed working with Muna she is really a good presenter, and a girl that you can depend on and be sure that she will not disappoint you.
When we presented our story I was excited, but after that I felt nervous and that I explained quickly, but I was happy that the class understood everything that I was talking about. And when I saw the students concentrating with us I get my confident back, and I think that my voice volume was clear to all the students and also everything that I have explained on the presentation and also through the activity. I was really satisfied of what I have presented and after the presentation I felt how much I had improved from the beginning of this year. However, there were a clear pronunciation mistakes.
So, for improvement first, I have to check the grammatical mistakes very well, and to work on improving these mistakes. Second, I need to improve my pronunciation, through listening to the difficult words and not just to look up for its definition, because that is not enough, just to understand the word, we also need to know the pronunciation of the word in order to pronounce it well.
For conclusion, I trust myself, that I always can do the best, in each time I present, and that I can control my nervous. And also I believe that I’m a good presenter, but I have to avoid the grammatical mistakes, and work hard in order to improve them. All in all I enjoyed the experience of teaching a story.