The presentation of the story "a story of an hour" that I have presented with my partner Majdoleen Sliman taught me many things about presenting, preparing and practicing for a presentation.
I had the best experience ever for preparing for my presentation. First of all, the idea of sharing a student a project I want to work in isn't an accepted idea for me. In the first time, I found it really hard to share anyone my presentation, even my friend.
However, I discovered that I will not make the best job alone, I recognized that I have to work with a partner because the presentation enquired a lot of effort. And I knew that one hand isn't able to clap.
At preparing the presentation, we had some obstacles during it, such as finding the suitable time for both of us, or sharing an idea and the other partner objects. All of these aspects created a hassle before the presentation day, but finally we made it and everything went well.
About myself in the presentation, I took a big part of the presentation because of I chose the story and I have decided of many things such as what to add to the presentation and what should be removed. I think I was a leader and I have this feature in my personality which I was proud of.
In addition, I have worked hard for the presentation by trying to make the best to let the students understand what we will talk about and interact during the activity at the end. By preparing and presenting, I found that I was able to express my thoughts by giving creative ideas. I took the responsibility to present in front the class and to make sure that the information is correct. In addition, I was confident while I was standing in front of the class.
In the other hand, If I have the opportunity again to present a story, I would practice more and more of presenting the presentation, the thing that I've found out that although a presentation was well prepared, it would lose its essence if the presenter wasn't prepared. Therefore, I think that I was able to practice more of presenting the story that could help me more to have self confidence in front of the students and the lecturer.
To sum up, a presentation is a significant project should exist in the courses because of it gives the students the opportunity to express their thoughts and make them have the responsibility to have the chance and provide the students with new information.