The physical adaptation source
first of all this theory is tell us how the human can to make sound because he is need them to explain about something as a emotion ,thoughts, skills, to organize something or to tell us about some decisions in order to have this knowledge or to adapt to the environment we need for some tools to do it in the correct way ,so that means we need to our body in order to make sounds, create some ideas or to make some words.
also I will mention the most important member in order to speak or to make something . firstly , the brain because I think that the mind is responsible for directing information and commands in order to say something or to create  words,songs...
something that important to speak about it is that we have a lot of members or parts of our body they are help us to create a tone, word,voice...
such as : teeth, lips, mouth, tongue, larynx and pharynx .
so the first member is the teeth , I think if is helpful to have a teeth because they help us to making sounds for examples: (f) or (v) ,and they are good for grinding and chewing .
the second member is the lips , so the lips important to make sounds such as : (p) or (b) and as we know that we have a different shapes of lips and this shapes let us to speak more flexible  in order to spell the letters in a correct way.
and we have also the mouth and the tongue so the size of the mouth useful and allow us to opened or to closed it more rabidly . also the smaller thicker and more muscular tongue that can be used to shape a wide variety of sounds.
the last members are the larynx and the pharynx at the first the larynx is "voice box" in our throat containing the vocal folds or vocal chords and due to upright position, head moved directly above the spinal column and larynx dropped to a lower position ,so as a result the pharynx became longer and then that increased range and clarity of sounds.
so that means in order to speak or to make a sound we need all these members.
we know that the human and the animals have all of those members but in a different shapes and sizes but they do not make the same sounds and do not speak the same language.
however, some birds, such as a parrot are able to produce the letters and sounds produced by humans.
at the end all they members are important in order to adapt to the environment and all of that tell us about the physical adaptation source theory.