In my opinion the theory that makes sense the most is "The physical adaptation".
The physical adaptation:
This theory focuses on the types of physical features humans possess and own.
This theory says and shows that humans have certain biological features that are different and distinct from other creatures.
These physical and biological features may have helped humans and allowed them to create complex languages, more than other creatures and species.
Examples for these features:
(1) Teeth.
(2) Lips.
(3) Mouth.
(4) Tongue.
(5) Larynx-throat.
(6) Pharynx.
These parts of the body distinguish and distribute humans from other species.
The structure of these parts of the body in humans is different than what it is in animals,apes and other creatures.
For examples:
(1) The human teeth are in upright position, not slanting upwards, and not in a curved line like the apes.
The human's teeth are even in height.
They are good for chewing.
This structure of the human teeth helps them make sounds like "f" or "v".
(2) The human lips have more sophisticated and complicated structure and musculature than other apes and creatures have .
The lips of humans are more flexible and they are smaller, which helps humans in making sounds like "p" , "m" and "b".
(In fact that "m" and "b" are predominately produced by babies in the 1st year).
(3) The human mouth is smaller compared to other creatures, and it can be opened and closed rapidly.
(4) The human tongue is thicker and shorter than other species.
The human tongue is more muscular.
(5) The human larynx differs in his position from primates, it is lower in modern human's body, which helps them produce and make sounds.
But the bad thing about it is that it makes humans more possible to choke on food, but monkeys for example do not choke.
(6) The  human pharynx is long which works as a resonator for range and clarity of sounds that are produced by humans.
On the other hand other species and primates almost do not have pharynx.
To sum it all up, the physical features and structures of human body differ from other creatures, which effect the way of developing and creating complex languages, by helping humans to create languages more than other species.