Languages in the world are the way humans communicate with each other. So language is the first way to communicate and distinguish humans from other living beings, and it provides the ability to express themselves clearly. Dialects arise after the emergence of the language, which may differ in one country as well, each region in the same country may have a different dialect, one country has one language and dozens of dialects, so we can say that dialect is the way we speak the language. In this essay, I intended to explore which of the Moroccan Arabic and the Maltese language are considered to be a dialect of Arabic or a language. The Moroccan Arabic is considered to be a dialect of Arabic language. It is spoken among Tunisian, Algerian, and Moroccan.
The origins of the Moroccan darija have four linguistic roots, which are classical Arabic, Amazigh cultures and ancient civilizations as well as some French and Spanish words. For that, it is a very difficult dialect to understand and to say it for other Arabs around the world. Even though the grammar, compositions, drainage, pronunciation and the majority of its dictionary is Arabic. However, it is also influenced by French, Spanish, Amazigh, and the classical Arabic in many ways: borrowing lexical words, pronunciation, and influence of the Amazigh grammar. In addition there is the element of code-switching.
The Maltese is considered to be a descendent of Arabic dialect. It is one of the official languages adopted by the European Union. Maltese is of Italian origin, lots of Arabic words, and smaller percentage of English, but the Maltese grammar is derived from Arabic. The relationship between Maltese and Arabic cannot be in the sameness of words and vocabulary; it is much deeper than that because Maltese has taken a lot of grammar from Arabic. Besides, the pronunciation of the numbers is similar to Arabic, but the dialect is different. So it is an easy language for Arabs to learn. Maltese language has a Latin orthography this makes it a different language rather than a dialect of Arabic.
To conclude, language is a distinct way for humans to communicate. However, a dialect is the way we talk a specific language. Moroccan is considered to be a dialect of Arabic that has influenced by other languages. It includes the language components of Arabic. However, Maltese is considered to be as an official language, despite the fact that it includes Arabic, Italian, and English words, it has its own orthographic writing. In addition, it is not considered as a difficult language to learn. It is easy for Arabs to learn it as it has a lot of Arabic words and it has a similar syntax to Arabic.