All people no matter where do they come from, or what their color or religion is, use language on a daily basis as a tool to convey oral and written messages without taking into consideration that the language they are exposed to, or the language policy they follow is decided by the government for that language to be maintained. Since language is considered to be unique, it varies not only between regions or countries, but also between people within the same place; each can choose to follow a personal style, or a certain policy that no one else uses. In other words, language is a vital tool which represents forms of open expression, creations, and interactions. Thus, language has no imposed definition of correct or incorrect.
There are two terms to be mentioned, the first is language, which we use to convey oral and written messages. However a dialect is a variety of speech of the same languages, in other words different ways to speak the same language. There are many differences between the two things, language may be different with rules, grammar, use and pronunciation. Whereas, dialects are not following strict and specific rules or grammar issues or even pronunciation, the speaker is free to talk the way he wants, the way he feels unique.
Arabic language is considered to be one of the most famous and common languages in the world, it has tens of dialects that are completely different than each other. One of those dialects is the Moroccan Arabic. Some of Arabic speakers believe that this dialect specifically is difficult because it is totally different than the Palestinian, Egyptian, Lebanese, Jordanian, Syrian or Soudian Arabic. Another category of people may even consider it as a different language because they use different terms and words that are based on Arabic language but still sound differently. The question that is raised in this case is: Does the Moroccan Arabic is a language or an Arabic dialect?
The answer is that Moroccan Arabic is a dialect and not a different language but it is simply the speakers’ extent or ability of understanding the language. For instance Egyptian Arab might find it really challenging to understand Moroccan Arab, whereas Tunisian Arab will find it easier because the dialects are close to each other.
However, the Maltese which is spoken in Malta Island, is considered to be a language because it includes all the aspects and criteria of language. Maltese is developed from Arabic but it also includes a sprinklings of English and other languages. Moreover, it can be considered as a separate language because when speaker of Arabic (mother tongue speaker) and Maltese have a conversation, they would not be able to understand each other, they don’t only have different order, pronunciation or grammar of the same words but they have quite different words.
To sum up, dialects and language are not the same, dialects is based on or developed from a language but it doesn’t have the full elements and criteria of a whole language. Whereas language is based on the cultural matters that differs from country to another. Moroccan Arabic is basically Arabic dialect, while Maltese is separate language and can stand by its own.