One of the most complex issues in linguistics is to distinguish and define between language and dialect.
Ferguson (1972) defines variety of languages as ‘anybody of human speech patterns which is sufficiently homogeneous to be analyzed by available techniques of synchronic description and which has a sufficiently large repertory of elements and their arrangements or processes with broad enough semantic scope to function in all formal contexts of communication.
A dialect is a language that is excluded from polite society- it is equivalent to non-standard or even substandard…connote various degrees of inferiority to those who speak this dialect.
The relationship between language and dialect can show how the concepts of ‘power’ and ‘solidarity’ help understand what is happening! Power; one has more status, money, influence… a language has more power than any of its dialects Solidarity; it is the feeling of equality that people have with one another.
It refers to the process by which a language has been codified in some way. All linguistic items…grammars/ spelling/ dictionaries.
Talking about Moroccan Arabic dialect, it is comprehensible to some extent with Algerian Arabic and it is similar to Tunisian Arabic. The Moroccan dialect has been influenced mainly by the Berber and to a lesser extent by Latin (African Romance), Punic, French and Spanish.
While Modern standard Arabic is scarcely spoken in daily lives and it is only used in formal situations such as religious sermons, magazines, books, governmental issues, and political talk shows.
Moroccan Darija differs from MSA and other Arabic dialects in some ways for example, in Vocabulary, the word "apartment" is pronounced as "barTmah" but in standard Arabic is "shaqa", and there is a different pronunciation for the word "apartment". Also there is a different use for some words in Arabic for example, "A lot" in Darija means "bzzaf" in MSA means" kathiir". The pronunciation is different owels are often Short because in Moroccan Darija they use the vowel reduction * . This result a new result in new consonant clusters. * reduced to a schwa or dropped Syllables consisting of consonants.*
The Maltese Language is a Semitic language that is an official language of the European Union. And this language is spoken by around 520,000 people, mostly on the island nation of Malta. Maltese is a descendant of a dialect of Arabic, called Siculo-Arabic and then become a language by its own.
Maltese is near Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia; people demand that if you know Tunisian language and Italian language you will be able to understand Maltese.
To conclude, Moroccan Darija is an Arabic dialect, however Maltese is not, it is a language by its own, the speakers need to study the language to be able to understand and to communicate with the people around by using this language.