Morocco- Darija, it is normally considered to belong to the Meghrebi Arabic dialect also includes other groups like: Algerian, Tunisian and Hassaniyan Arabic. Darija is also known as Arabic dialect the most difficult dialect for speakers of other dialects to understand, and what makes it more difficult as further you go east it becomes harder.
Morocco was occupied from French, in 1956 Morocco gained independence. However, Morocco's official language became Arabic, but French continues to be a prestige language, it is commonly used in business and government and main language on university instruction. Also there is element of code switching, using French words in Darija. MSA (Modern Standard Arabic) and French are learned at school, MSA is limited to certain situations media and writing. Darija is used for daily communication rather than MSA.
Moroccan Darija differs from MSA and other Arabic dialects in some ways for example, in Vocabulary, the word "apartment" is pronounced as "barTmah" but in standard Arabic is "shaqa", and there is a different pronunciation for the word "apartment". Also there is a different use for some words in Arabic for example, "A lot" in Darija means "bzzaf" in MSA means" kathiir". The pronunciation is different because in Moroccan Darija they use the vowel reduction * Short vowels are often reduced to a schwa or dropped. * This result a new result in new consonant clusters. *Syllables consisting of consonants.
The Amazigh language, a North African ethnic group that speak the Amazigh languages, when Amazigh speakers learned Arabic their native Amazigh languages naturally influenced the way they speak Arabic, the pronunciation is influenced of Amazigh phonology. For example, In Standard Arabic "balad" it means "country" "bled". In the example about the word in Arabic has stress on the first syllable, but in Darija the stress move to the final vowel.
The Moroccan Darija grammar is similar to the other Arabic dialects, but the Amazigh grammar is obviously contains different structure in the sentence, in Arabic is verb, subject and subject but in Darija is subject, verb and object, of course there are words that are still different but still Darija is a dialect of Arabic language.
Moreover, the use of the articles in the sentences is almost the same, in standard Arabic the article " the" is pronounced as "al" but in Darija is pronounced "l" for example the word "the book" is pronounced as " al-kitaab" in Arabic and in Daija is pronounced "l kitaab", they are both the same but they pronounced differently because of the French and the Amazigh.
The Maltese Language is a Semitic language that is an official language of the European Union. And this language is spoken by around 520,000 people, mostly on the island nation of Malta. Maltese is a descendant of a dialect of Arabic, called Siculo-Arabic and then become a language by its own.
Maltese is near Morocco, Algeris and Tunisia; people demand that if you know Tunisian language and Italian language you will be able to understand Maltese. The syntax and grammar of Maltese remains Arabic and about a third of the vocabulary is still Arabic.
To sum up, Moroccan Darija is a dialect of Arabic however, Maltese is not, it is a language by its own, the speakers need to study the language to be able to understand and to communicate with the people around by using this language.