A language is a way of communication that is used by people who understand the same language, in other words, it is a way of speaking of a country or a group of people. A language may have many different forms of that language, in which it may have a difference in phonology (pronunciation), grammar, vocabulary or in all of them. This difference in the same language is called dialect. In other words, a dialect is a verity of a speech of the language that differs somewhat from another verity of speech of the same language in a particular area, and it can also be a substitute for the language.
According to the definitions above, the Moroccan Darija or the Moroccan Arabic may be considered a dialect of the standard Arabic language, while the Maltese maybe considered a language that is different from Arabic.
The Maltese language is a semantic language with a kind of twist on it. Even though it is a descendant of the dialect of Arabic that is called Siculo- Arabic language, it is still different from the Arabic language. Because of it is history (1049), Arabic speaking Muslims from Sicily arrived in Malta starts living there establishing communities that speak the maghrib or North African dialect of the Arabic language, thus led the people to speak this language. However, in 1091, the Christians or the roman come and defeated the Arabic, thus produced somehow an Arabic structure but with a lot of new foreign vocabulary. For example, if we heard the Maltese language we won't be able to understand it, or even when we read it too, that is because the vocabulary which is about the sound (phonology) and morphology of that language are totally different from Arabic.
The Moroccan Darija or the Moroccan Arabic is a dialect of the standard Arabic that is influenced by the Amazigh language. Before the Islamic conquer the Maghreb, the people living there were Berber (a group of people that speak the Amazigh language). The language of these people influenced the Arabic language when they spoke Arabic. In addition to the Amazigh people, the France and Spanish influenced the Arabic language. The phonology of the Moroccan Darija is considered to be fast like, the whole sentence is pronounced as a word. But when the speakers of that language talk slowly, the standard Arabic speakers can understand it, even though there is difference in vocabulary and pronunciation, but if we pay a close attention to it is written form we can understand it, because somehow the Moroccan Darija has similar words of standard Arabic and the only difference is in syntax. The structure of the Moroccan Darija's sentence is different from Arabic, in Standard Arabic the structure is VSO (verb+subject+object), while in Moroccan Darija's it is SVO.