Languages and dialects are both codes of communication. Language is a standardized code, which is spoken and written. While a dialect is a spoken vernacular code, which isn’t used for writing. As in language is spoken and written whereas a dialect is only spoken.
Moreover, dialects are defined as different varieties of one language, which evolved in different countries in the world. For example, Italian, French and Spanish were once dialects Latin, but over the centuries they evolved and became their own languages.
In the case of Arabic, which is a language a lot with different dialects. Jordanian, Palestinian, Syrian, Tunisian and Moroccan being one of them, in addition to a few others. Moroccan being a bit hard to understand by speakers of other dialects of Arabic, it is still very close to the standard Arabic unlike the Maltese language. As mentioned it is a bit difficult to understand by other Arabic speakers, but it traces back to the standard Arabic.
Before Islam and Arabic came to morocco, the population basically consisted of the Amazigh people. Amazigh people are a north African ethnic group that speak Amazigh languages. When these people learned Arabic, their Amazigh language affected the way they spoke Arabic, and it is the source of some of Darija's (Moroccan) unique features.
Maltese is certainly a Semitic language, the only Semitic language in Europe, and was considered a dialect Arabic, but it now it is considered a language. It is not considered a dialect of Arabic now because of the many factors it was influenced by, factors from the old history of the island of Malta. In addition to its geographic place, considering that Malta is cut off from the Arabic speaking countries, far from North Africa and closer to Europe.
On the other hand, looking at the history of the island, Malta, the expulsion of Muslims in 1249 isolated the vernacular from its Arabic source, which allowed for its evolution into a distinct language. It continued to evolve, influenced by Italian, in the end replacing it as official language in 1934. also in a certain period of time was ruled by the French, Sicilians and the British, they influenced the language and overtime developed features that Arabic doesn’t have.
Today, its vocabulary mainly consists of Semitic words, with a large number of loanwords. Loanwords are words adopted from one language and incorporated into another without translating it. Maltese has a lot of language features, as a result of being influenced by Sicilian and is often described as a language with a large sum of loanwords.
In conclusion, Moroccan is a dialect of Arabic while Maltese is a language. Morocco's original people, the Amazigh people, their original language affected the way they spoke Arabic. In contrast, Maltese, is a semitic language originated from Arabic, but over the years it was influenced by its geographical place being closer to Europe than north Africa. But the different people that ruled the island over the years, mainly by Italian's. and eventually it became its own distinct language.