Moroccan Arabic / Darija considered being a dialect of Arabic, and not a different language that is spoken in Morocco while French considered as the prestigious language. A dialect is a variety of a language related to a certain social group in a certain place with no standardized system. As Ennaji et al., (2004); Benmamoun, (2001) “Moroccan Arabic a dialect with over 21 million native speakers (Lewis et al., 2014), remains a particularly under-resourced variant of Arabic (As cited in Samih & Maier, 2016). This clearly shows that the standardized system of Moroccan Arabic is Modern Standard Arabic (MSA). In spite of the fact, that Moroccan Arabic has many differences comparing to other Arabic dialects it stills a dialect. The reason of this difference is the colonialization of other countries in Morocco such as France and Spain and the interaction with the Amazigh people (which it has different dialects) that lead to a variance in phonology, grammar and pronunciation and vocabulary loaning (code-switching) in which we may find words that are similar to Arabic and words that under no conditions are not Arabic.
Morocco is a mixture of cultures and religions. Rachel Salia, (2011) “Morocco has always been home to both Arabic and Amazigh speakers. Amazigh is an umbrella term that refers to the language Amazigh (or Berber) peoples use, which has three main dialects (Tarifit, Tamazight, and Tashelhight)”. This engagement with other speakers may lead to code-switching and borrowing what is existing in a certain language to the one we speak.
However, the Maltese language is considered to be a Semitic language spoken by the people who live in Malta and it is officially known in the European Union. In addition, the English language is also an official language and widely spoken on the field of business. 	The Maltese language origin is from the Siculo- Arabic (0:45- the video) and it has a mixture of Italian, Sicilian, French and English vocabulary. Furthermore, the Maltese language stops to be an Arabic dialect and becomes a language (3:50) because it has a lot of words that are not Arabic. However, the speakers of Tunisian dialect (Maghreb) find it easy to understand the Maltese language, this may because it has Italian words that might appear in Maltese.
Moreover, what makes it considered being a language it has its own alphabet written system, and its own pronunciation.
To conclude, Moroccan Arabic is a dialect of Arabic where it has the Arabic words or the MSA within it, whereas the Maltese language is a language by itself where it is completely different from Arabic and it has its spoken and written systems (Latin script) and is considered an official language.