As we know there is a difference between dialects and languages, a dialect is not the same as a language, however the question is: can we consider “Darija”, Moroccan’s dialect as a dialect of Arabic or the Maltese dialect too.
Firstly, what is a language?
A language is a system of communication, in which two persons or a group of people can communicate using this language, it is the humans’ ability to speak and communicate.
Moreover, in every language there are dialects, which are “a particular form of a language which is specific to a region or social group and usually has differences in pronunciation, grammar, syntax and vocabulary”.
Dialects are a spoken language in everyday life; however, these dialects can not be used in every area in the same town or even in the same country, dialects can be used for specific region or social group.
For example: we can imagine having two persons from different cities in the same country they lived in, however, these two persons may have different dialects in which one speaks “Darija dialect”; which is a dialect used in Morocco, while the other person speaks different dialect but he is also from Morocco, so these two persons have different dialects and they may not understand each other.
Moreover, the Maltese dialect which is used in Malta, some people in specific areas in Malta can be understand this dialect because they belong to a region or social group that understand this dialect, while the same people who is living in the same country will not understand this dialect, because they do not belong to this region or social group that use this dialect.
So, the question is: Can we consider these two languages (The Maltese dialect and the Darija dialect) as a dialect of Arabic?
Since, these two languages have many vocabularies from European countries, for example, the Maltese language which most of its daily used words are from Italian and French, we can not consider it as a dialect of Arabic language, it is totally different in terms of vocabulary and orthography, however, it is a dialect of Arabic.
The position of Maltese is somewhat different from the other Arabic "dialects" as it has its own written standard. Maltese transcribed into Arabic script would not be Arabic. Of course, "Moroccan" written in Arabic script would not be "Arabic" either. The difference is that Maltese is written and "Moroccan" is not. It ought not to be the case that whether or not there is a written form determines whether you have a language or a dialect, but it does tend to be an important factor taken into account.
Moreover, the Darija language, also a dialect of Arabic, despite that it has more French words and its Arabic script been not even written in Arabic; however, it is considered as a dialect of Arabic.
To conclude, the “Darija” and “Maltese” languages are a dialect of Arabic languages, since their identities are Arabic, however, their scripts are not written in Arabic, and most of their speaking and vocabularies are not Arabic, but we can not consider them as not a dialect of Arabic, there are a dialect of Arabic.