Languages and dialects are widely spoken all over the world. Sometimes it happens that the dialect diverges from the languages it stems from to the extent it becomes a language by its own. Definitely, it will have common shared features with the original source, however it is still differs in its unique way. Thus, it is fair to say that dialects cannot be categorized as languages standing by their own. A language has its own distinct: morphology, vocabulary, phonology etc. Dialects might share some of the characteristics yet not all.
In Arabic, the case with the Moroccan dialect could be confusing. The native Arab speakers of other dialects specially the ones from the Middle East find it hard to understand the speakers of Arab African dialects for instance, Algerian, Tunisian and Moroccan; however, the latter is to be found the hardest one to understand. Thus, the chances of an Arab speaker from Palestine to successfully contact with a Moroccan speaker  without the use of Modern Standard Arabic are very low. They might understand words here and there if paying careful attention, but to be fully competent of socializing with the other Moroccan party without simplifying or doing alterations is almost an impossible task.
The Moroccan dialect has undergone massive changes due to the occupying forces through the course of history; for instance, French and the Amazigh have enormously affected it; nevertheless, this does not make it a distinct language from Arabic. The majority of the vocabulary stem from Modern Standard Arabic, the magnificent change might be the inflictions added like the "sh" sound added at the end along with "ma" at the beginning to indicate negation. For instance as mentioned in the sources provided "ma3andish shi mush, wa lakin 3andi tes3a dial hutat" corresponds to this sentence in Modern Standard Arabic " Laysa laday a'yatu qatatin wlakin ladaya tis3atu asmakin". It means that I don`t have any cats, but I have nine fish". The ultimate number of the Arab words exceeds that of the borrowed foreign ones.
On the other hand, the Maltese language is less likely to consider as a dialect of Arabic. It is true that it shares a good number of words with the Arabic language; however, it constitutes less than half of the whole vocabulary number of the language. In fact, it consists also of Italian and Spanish words that build up more than two thirds of the overall vocabulary number of the Maltese language. In order to understand Maltese, you need to be familiar with all three languages: Spanish, Italian and Arabic. Somehow, it is a mixture of all three together yet not fully belongs in particular to a solo one.
With so many different controlling powers over the years ruling over the island, the Sicilian Arabic dialect that has been spoken by the majority of the inhabitants has diverged a lot from its origin to become eventually a language of its own. Muslims at one point were immigrated of the island at a certain period of times, thus their connection with classical Arabic through the Quran has been abolished and gradually larger steps has been taken their course to effect of what is called today the Maltese language. The language kept the Arabic structure and grammar, however, having the loan words overtaking more than half of its vocabulary made it that distinct of Arabic. Therefore, when reading a sentence in Maltese, you will be able to distinguish the structure and understand a bit but because of the enormous amount of the borrowed words, it will be hard to grasp the meaning. For example, this sentence as borrowed from the video referenced "Ir-riforma fil-migrazzjoni ghandha tinkludi l-principju tas-solidarjeta", In English it would be "Migration reform must include the principle of solidarity". Obviously, compared to the other sentence in Moroccan as mentioned earlier definitely an Arab speaker can understand way less of it. Relatively, Moroccan Shares more features than it is the case with the Maltese language. Nowadays, Maltese is written in Latin alphabet and Arabic is no longer an official language in Malta which is not the case with Moroccan Arabic.