As it was mentioned in the video “The Maltese Language”, Maltese is the official language of Malta
which is a European island country located in the Mediterranean Sea and is close to countries like Italy,
Libya and Tunisia. The Maltese Language consists of a variety of different languages like, French, English
and Italian and it is considered to be only a descendant of Sicilian Arabic which was spoken by Italian
Muslims in Sicily and not a dialect of Arabic. In addition, it is a actually an interesting kind of language
that includes a twist, because it is the only Semitic official language of the European Union .
Moreover, I don’t think that Maltese can be considered a dialect of Arabic because it very Semitic and
before Malta gained its independence ad after the exit of Sicilian Muslims from Malta, it was ruled by
different other nations like the French, the British and Italy , which eventually led to the incorporation of
French, English and Italian into the language and this led for Maltese to become a separate language of
its own.
Another reason to why I consider Maltese to be a dialect of Arabic is because it is a language that it is
written only in Latin, while all the Arab languages in the world are written in Modern Standardized
Arabic. The Maltese language has a mix of borrowed vocabulary from other languages like, Italian and
English.
For example: the word “Persuna” which means person and the word “Abilita” which means “ability”
originates from Italian and words like “Soker” which means soccer and “Aggastja” which means to adjust
come from English. While, the Arabic vocabulary in Maltese is not enough and is only 32%, while half of
the Maltese language is mainly Italian and the English and French vocabulary are like 20%.
The Moroccan Darija dialect of Arabic is basically considered to belong to the Meghrebi people who
lived in Morocco and during the seventh century. The Islamic conquest of the meghrebi part of Morocco
helped bring the Arabic language and Islam to the country of Morocco. Moreover, after Morocco’s
independence, Modern Standard Arabic was considered the official language of Morocco as well as the
amazigh language, which originally belonged to the native berber settlers who used lived in Morocco
before.
Moreover, the Moroccan darija language is considered as another dialect of Arabic and not a different
language because it is closely related to Classical Arabic and about 65% of the population in Morocco
speak Moroccan Darija as a first language and a big majority of the amazigh people use it as an L1 too.
While the French and Spanish vocabulary have less influence and are used as loan words and are
considered only as prestigious languages in the country.
In the Moroccan Darija language, the use of Classical Arabic and modern Arabic vocabulary in Morocco
has much more influence and is used a lot in speech . For, example the word, “bzzaf” means “a lot” in
Classical Arabic and the word “juj” comes from an Arabic word which means “couple” as well as the
word “bab” which means “door” in Arabic. Even though the Moroccan Darija is mixed with a little bit of
French, Spanish or Berber, the language is still mostly Arabic and the Arabic alphabet is used as the
writing style. Therefore, I strongly believe that Moroccan is a dialect of Arabic in Morocco.