In my opinion, I think the Moroccan Arabic is dialect. It has been deeply influenced by the Berber languages (Amazigh) and to a lesser extent by French and Spanish. I always say that a good knowledge of the Standard Arabic is critical to learn the dialects a lot easier and a lot quicker. It’s the same for Moroccan Arabic; the mainstream of the words are similar to Standard Arabic with some variation in pronunciation and the loanwords from other languages like French, Spanish and Amazigh.
However, the more I listen to Moroccan Arabic, the more familiar it became, especially after learning the basic differences with Standard Arabic.
As with most of the Arabic dialects, the main differences are in the most commonly used words, and the more difficult and complicated words tend to be the same with Standard Arabic.
So what I’ve found is that consonant clusters caused by dropped short vowels make it very tricky to hear what’s being said the first time round. But when I listen a few times or see it in a record I usually (though not always) get an ‘aha!’ moment. The challenge is training your ears to listen carefully for the familiar consonants.
Resembling every dialect variation of Arabic, there are important vowel shifts that make a very common Arabic word totally unrecognizable at first sound. As a simple example, take the word for ‘dog’ (كلب).
Across dialects, you’ll hear this pronounced ‘kalb’, ‘kelb’, ‘kilb’ or even ‘keleb’.
It’s the same word though if you look at the consonants – the only difference is that it’s undergone vowel changes over time in different places. When you hear this spoken in a sentence at normal speed surrounded by other words, it can be very hard to hear if you’re not used to that particular vowel change.
Moving to Maltese language, I think she is a different language not dialect. The Maltese language is written in the Latin handwriting. Over the centuries, it has included many words derivative from English, Italian and French.
Maltese is certainly a Semitic language and you could no distrust call it a dialect of Arabic (most similar to Tunisian Arabic, I believe), but it has usual a lot of influence from Romance languages (especially standard Italian) and English.
I believe the way it integrates new advance verbs is also unique to Maltese and is not found in any other Arabic dialect, which generally somehow try to squish the word into a trilateral or quadrilateral skeleton, while Maltese uses prefix and suffix morphology (generalizing from an otherwise fairly small class of native verbs) and can thus cope with more or less arbitrarily shaped verbs.