Dialect is a variety of a language that signals where a person comes from. The notion is usually interpreted geographically (regional dialect), but it also has some application in relation to a person’s social background (class dialect) or occupation (occupational dialect). One example of a language that is composed of fine number of Dialects is Arabic language. In the following essay I am going to discuss one of the Arabic dialects.
One interesting dialect of Arabic is associated in the spoken language in the country of Morocco. In the mentioned country, it combines three different languages at the same time; the first one is the spoken native language or the vernacular which is called Darija, the second spoken language is French which is considered the modern prestigious language that is mostly utilized in education, government and business fields; at last the third language is the modern standard Arabic that most figures be exposed and learned basically in schools.
Shifting the light to the spoken language in Morocco – Darija or Moroccan Arabic, this language is most commonly used for communication, but there is a question wither it is an independent language or it is a dialect of the Arabic language. There are two basic differences between modern standard Arabic and Drija which as: Vocabulary and Grammar.
The Moroccan Arabic or Darija sounds like totally different language from modern standard Arabic or any other dialect of Arabic language, thus it is a struggle for Middle East speakers to understand Moroccan Arabic. At first Moroccan Arabic sounds like a foreign language for the first time for other speakers of Arabic, however when listening carefully some words of Modern standard Arabic will be recognized with some of changes. Like every dialect variation of Arabic, there are significant vowel shifts that make a very common Arabic word totally unrecognizable at the first sound. For instance the word "dog", across dialects it might beheard as: "kalb" "kelb" " kilb" "kekeb". it is the same word, it shares the same consonants however it differs in the vowels. This shows how Moroccan Arabic also have this variation when using Arabic words with vowel changes e.g the personal pronouns "enta" "enti" become "nta" and "nti" .
Another example the word "Cup" in Modern standart Arabic it is " Kaa's" in different dialects might be prounonced as : "kasi" "kasa" and even a different word : "kobai". This example might demonstrate the fact of the Moroccan Arabic although it might has different words for one known word of Arabic this might go under the fact that dialects of Arabic may have different words from the original one.
Second, Moroccan Arabic grammar has basic difference to other dialects of Arabic but nothing major. The general structure or syntax and majority of terms are the same, for another speakers of Arabic when they once recognize the differences they will easily move ahead. For instance: in Moroccan Arabic: "ana niktib" unlike other dialects " ana aktib ". in mroccan it is : n+verb+u. however this structure is used for plural form in other dialects and standard Arabic.
To conclude Darija or Moroccan Arabic sounds like a different language at the first sound, taking into consideration the influence of other languages like French and Spanish, and the basic differences in vocabulary and grammar , yet it still a dialect of the Modern Standard Arabic language.