Language and dialect are codes, both are used to communicate on with the other. Dialects are different varieties of the same language that have evolved in different geographical locations, it is equivalent to non – standard or even substandard written system. While language is, a standardized code used in spoken and written form. A language is a collection of different dialects, which the speakers of the same language with different dialects can understand each other. Arabic is a language that has different varieties of dialects, and many languages can be considered a dialect of Arabic. So, which language can be considered a dialect of Arabic, Moroccan language or Maltese language? I think that Moroccan language can be considered as a dialect of Arabic, while the Maltese language is not.
Moroccan Darija is part of the Maghrebi Arabic dialect, this language influenced by Berber language. The speakers of Moroccan Darija are "Berber" people, so they influenced the way they spoke Arabic. Also, the French language affected the Moroccan Darija before the independence of Morocco. For that, Moroccans are fluent in speaking French and can be an element of code-switching, using words from other languages while speaking, which is including French words in Darija. French language often used in business and government.
Moroccan Darija is the spoken language in Morocco, it is highly used and the speakers use it for daily communication and informal conversations. While Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) is rarely spoken in daily life and is used in formal situations such as religious books, newspapers, government, and media. Moroccan Darija has different features of other Arabic dialects and  Modern Standard Arabic, but not all of them. First, the vocabulary feature of Darija. There are many French loanwords, the words in Darija similar to words in French and MSA. And some words are Arabic origin but have used differently. For example, Table (English) – Tabla (French). Second, vowel reduction, makes language hardest to understand because of the influence of Amazigh phonology on Darija. Third, grammar is not different from other Arabic dialects and shared common features. However, it is different from MSA. These features can help the speakers of the Arabic language understand the Moroccan Darija if it's speaker slows down while speaking.
The Maltese language is the standardized Arabic spoken by the Maltese people of Malta. It is a Semitic language which is the national language of Malta, also it is considered as an official language of the European Union. It is originated from an Arabic dialect called Sicily so it still considered Semitic because of its origin. However, the Maltese language cannot be a dialect of Arabic, because it diverged a lot from Arabic in the last thousand years. And the force of the Quran that prevents dialects from changing in not connected anymore to Maltese language. As a result, it went in its direction and become a new language. Maltese is not widely spoken, and you cannot understand it unless you know Arabic and Italian and this is not enough to speak it. This shows that the Maltese language is similar to Arabic and Italian language, and not to consider it as a dialect of Arabic.