Both a language and a dialect are means where communities use to communicate either by writing or speaking (Jamal, 2018). A language is a system of communication, while a dialect is about a particular variety of a language, specific to a certain region or a special group. Various languages, such as Arabic and Italian, have diversity in their dialects when speaking informally, yet, they have one formal form (dialect); for Arabic, it is Modern Standard Arabic (MSA).
The Moroccan Arabic dialect, Darija, is debatable on whether it should be distinguished as an Arabic dialect or not. Back then, Morocco’s population consisted mostly of Berber people, who were originally Amazigh. In the 7th century CE, the Islamic conquest of the Maghreb region brought both Islam, and Arabic to Morocco. Naturally, the pronunciation of Arabic was affected by the Amazigh languages. In the 19th century, other countries colonized Morocco, and neighboring countries which led to an influence on Darija, especially French, that became later on a prestigious language; however, upon independence, Standard Arabic (SA) became the official language. Certain features of the vernacular language were affected, especially phonology in its stress, and vowel reduction, yet, they still used the same orthography (abjad alphabet) in writing and speaking. I believe that Darija is an Arabic dialect since it is similar to all the other Arabic ones. All Arabic dialects vary from SA in one way or another; “new Arabic speakers in each community developed their own variety of Arabic that was influenced by their previous native language” (Paul, 15:02).
Another confusion that might arise is whether Maltese should also be considered a dialect of Arabic or not since it contains a large quantity of Arabic words, and still remains the Arabic syntax and grammar. It is a hybrid language, consisting of Semitic and Romance languages; Semitic, considering its Arabic origin, and structure (Siculo-Arabic). It has diverged quite a lot from Arabic over the years, and has now become its own independent language. In the 9th century, Sicily was occupied, and Maghrebi Arabic dialect was brought to it. In 1049, Arab speaking Muslims from Sicily went to Malta, and created their own communities there. Later on, Christians came, and a battle arose, resulting in defeating Arabs. Furthermore, people started moving in from Sicily, and different places to Malta, bringing their own languages with them, creating new communities. Later on, Muslims were expelled and departed from Sicily and Malta, which cut off the Siculo-Arabic dialect from other Arabic speaking countries in the world, resulting in drifting the language from Arabic as time went on. What played a major role in keeping Arabic as an everyday language in Arabic-speaking communities is the Quran; however, in Malta, Muslims were no longer part of the country, so practicing the language was not an option. From my perspective, Maltese is not equivalent to Darija in its relationship with the Arabic language; the orthography is different, and SA is not its formal dialect. The minute the Quran, main source of Arabic back then, was not accepted in Malta, the minute the language drifted apart, and lost most of its Arabic purity.