Languages and dialects are a linguistic code system used for communication; however, the difference between both of them is that languages are a standardized code used in written and spoken forms. Nevertheless, according to Paul, what is the difference between a dialect and a language? “A dialect really means a variety of speech that differs somewhat from another variety of speech of that same language” which indicates that dialects are merely used in a spoken form. In addition, it could differ in grammar, phonology, pronunciation and vocabulary. Therefore, in this paper, I intend to discuss whether Moroccan and Maltese languages are considered as dialects of Arabic.
Moroccan Arabic is considered a dialect of Arabic though it is difficult for speakers of other Arabic dialects to understand it, Paul, Moroccan Darija: an Arabic dialect? States that “some Arabic speakers say that hearing Moroccan Darija is like hearing a different language” due to some different vocabulary pronunciation.
Moroccan Arabic includes more than one types of words, according to Paul, Moroccan Darija: an Arabic dialect?  “Moroccan Darija is normally considered to belong to the Meghrebi Arabic dialect group which includes not only Moroccan Arabic but also Algerian, Tunisian and Hassaniyan Arabic”  Morocco was colonized by the French mandate back in time; therefore, Moroccan people use French and Arabic when they speak. However, the Moroccan dialect and the Arabic language still share sounds and letters, in addition, the country’s official language is Arabic, and which means that orthographic form of the language is Arabic.
While The Maltese is considered a separate language from Arabic, according to Paul, the Maltese language: An Arabic Descendant “it has diverged quite a lot from Arabic over the last 1000 years or so, and has now become its own language” Maltese is originally developed from Siculo-Arabic, and was essentially separated from Arabic during a certain period.
The main reason for separating the Maltese language from Arabic is because of a significant event that happened long time ago; Paul, the Maltese language: An Arabic Descendant, mentions “the new regime in Sicily expelled all of the Muslims from Sicily and from Malta as well”. Since the island became colonized by several different groups such as French, Sicilians and British. These three groups influenced Malta; Paul, the Maltese language: An Arabic Descendant states that “about half of the vocabulary is from Italian or Sicilian and the remaining vocabulary is mostly from English and French” Therefore, the Maltese language has changed in terms of grammar and vocabulary. As a result, other linguistic features that are not existed in Arabic and unlike any other Semitic language developed. This affect also influenced the orthographic form of the language, thus nowadays it is written in the Latin alphabet.