Morocco has 3 different languages that are used, one is the spoken native vernacular which is (Darija), the second used language is French and it's the modern prestigious language that is used in education and business, and the third language is the modern standard Arabic that is only being studied in schools.
The Berber language of Morocco is considered the authentic language since it’s the language of Morocco's first inhabitants before Romans and Arabs came, then the Darija language exists which is a mix of Berber, Arabic and French.
Moroccan language is somehow complicated because of the different Arabic words categories it has, there are some words that are Arabic and commonly used between Arabs, there are some words that are Arabic but had been manipulated in them so they sound and look like Arabic words but have some little differences and the last type is the words that are totally different than the Arabic we know. Furthermore, what makes it hard to understand Moroccan language is the accent that is so unique but sounds like Tunisian as well as the Maltese, also the pronunciation of the words and the vowels is different, for example they use the Schwa in their speech that is more similar to the French language. Another factor that makes it hard to be understood is the code switching they do when they speak and it occurs between Arabic and French, the fact that makes it sound as French.
The Maltese language is a Latinized Arabic it means that the Arabic is affected by the romance language (Italian) and being Arabic but in the Italian version. It is consists of 40% Italian, 20% English and 40% Arabic. Furthermore, Maltese is the only Semitic language written in Latin letters. The Maltese accent sounds like Tunisians.
The Maltese language is totally different than Arabic language, it has some Arabic though. It is a language that includes many languages, it is right that it includes Arabic words in it but they are hardly identified or even recognized, if an Arab hears the Maltese language he/she will not be able to understand the idea behind the sentence or the structure of the sentence itself, as it's far away from the Arabic language in several aspects. One of the most important factors that emphasizes the Maltese being a language with its own is the letters of the language ; since the letters are Latin letters and not Arabic, so how come a language to be considered an Arabic while it doesn't include the most important features of the Arabic languages which is the Arabic letters.
Both languages had been manipulated by historical events such as the occupation of other countries.
According to the data above, the Maltese language is a language by its own and totally different than Arabic, however, the Moroccan language is an Arabic dialect that has been changed a little bet due to historical factors that make it a really complex dialect that differs from other Arabic dialects in the lexicon, grammar, the structure of the sentence and the sounds of the letters, but still it's Arabic.