All over the world there are people who speak closely related forms of communication, sometimes they are called different languages, and sometimes they are called dialects of one language. A language is the use of a communicative system which consists of a set of sounds or written symbols. Within every language there is some degree of variety and difference, especially in the spoken aspect. However, a dialect is a variety of speech that differs slightly from another variety of speech of the same language. The differences might lay in grammar, phonology, pronunciation and vocabulary. Yet it is debatable how to decide if a communicative form considered being a dialect of a language, or it is a totally separated language. This essay provides an explanation on whether either the Moroccan Arabic or the Maltese language can be considered a dialect of Arabic.
Moroccan Darija is an Arabic dialect that is spoken in Morocco which is similar to Tunisia and Algeria’s dialects and different from dialects spoken in Palestine, Egypt, Jordon and Lebanon. Although the Darija dialect is influenced by the French and the Spanish colonization, but it is based on the Arabic language. Many people debates on whether the Moroccan Darija is considered as an Arabic dialect or it is a different language. However, the term mutual intelligibility which means whether the speakers of two different varieties of the language can understand each other or not, can offer a solution for the debate. For instance, Lebanese can understand Egyptians as they are talking even though they have differences in phonological and vocabulary aspects which are dialect’s differences, thus, they are speaking the same language with two different dialects.
Despite the fact that it is difficult for a person who speaks the standard modern Arabic (SMA) to understand two Moroccan people talking the Darija dialects to each other because they will show the dialects’ differences clearly, but this does not make it a separate language, since that the SMA and the Darija use the same written standard variety of the Arabic language even though the spoken standards may differ in some aspects. This can be clarified by taking into account that when Arabic and Moroccan speakers start a conversation they try to adjust their speech to make it closer to the written standard and mix the language with their natural language, and finally, they can have a successful communication even that the Arabic speaker cannot fully understand the Moroccan speaker’s variety of Arabic when he speaks to another Moroccan person. Therefore, blending the differences of speech with the same written standard of a language helps speakers to communicate through dialects, and shows that they are using the same language.
The Maltese language which is spoken in Malta Island is descendant from an Arabic dialect. On contrary to the Moroccan Darija dialect, the Maltese has all the criteria of a language and it is considered to be a separate language from Arabic which does not have mutual intelligibility, because an Arabic speaker cannot make a successful conversation with a Maltese speaker, neither if they adjust their speaking to the written standard, nor if they spoke in a slower pace. The Arabic language has different written, vocabulary and phonological aspects from that of the Maltese language.
In conclusion, dialects are about linguistics elements shared by a group of identity elects, whereas a language is more about the ethnic and the cultural identity of the people. Moroccan Darija is an Arabic dialect, because it shares the same written standard of the SMA, but the Maltese language is a totally separated language that is descended from the Arabic language.