Language is considered a system of communication used by a particular country or community, it is used in both written and spoken form. While dialect is not considered as a written system, it is used only on a spoken form by a group of people who peculiar to a specific region or geographical communication. Also a dialect can be includes as part of a specific language, for example, Arabic language it can be presented by different dialects that differ from each other.
In this paper, we are going to discuss whether the two languages Maltese and Morocco considered a dialect of Arabic. Moroccan Arabic or Moroccan Darija, is part of the Arabic language, and it considered a dialect for people who live in Morocco. In addition it is known as the most difficult dialect for other dialects speakers to understand, some people considered it as a different language because it affected by the Amazigh language and other languages like Spanish and French. The reason of the influence of Moroccan language by the French language is the French colonization. After France occupied Morocco, the French language became the primary language of Morocco which means that most people in Morocco became fluent in French, they use it in many different fields.
In addition, the thing that make Darija hard to understood is because it influenced by the Berbers’ Dialect, the term Berber refers to the Amazigh people a north African group that speaks Amazigh language, but when these Amazigh people learned Arabic the language of the new rulers their Amazigh language was affected, which means that they spoke Arabic but their Arabic dialect was affected by the Amazigh dialect.
As a result of the Amazigh language influence on the Moroccan Darija, a vowel reduction resulted which means that for the Moroccan Darija the stress is on the last syllable, but for the Standard Arabic the stress is on the first syllable, such as, the word "country", in Moroccan Darija is "bled", but in Standard Arabic is "balad".
On the other hand, the Maltese language it is not considered as an Arabic dialect, instead it is considered a language by its self. Maltese language is a special language, it is spoken by the Maltese people of Malta. Malta is a small country it has had several rulers, such as, Sicilians, French, British and others.
After the Norman ruler who was Christian defeated the Arabs and occupied Sicily and Malta too, more settlers from Sicily came to Malta and brought their language with them. And after the decline of the Norman rules all Muslims were expelled from Sicily and from Malta as well, so the conservative force that prevent their dialects from changing which is the Quran was no longer connected to their dialect, and this makes their dialect to be free to drift off on its own and to becomes a new language.
Furthermore, most of the Maltese words come from Italian and Arabic, so if we know Italian or Arabic we can understand some of the Maltese words, and in order to communicate with the Maltese people and to understand their language we need to learn it. Maltese is a very interesting language because it is a twisted language and it is the only sematic language that was spoken in Spain and Sicily, and the only one that was written in Latin.
To conclude, we can considered the Maltese as a language that developed and becomes a language by its own, and we can considered the Darija as a dialect of the Arabic language and it is part of it.