The definition of language according to the dictionary is: " A language is a system of communication which consists of a set of sounds and written symbols which are used by the people of a particular country or region for talking or writing."
Another definition: " Language is the use of a system of communication which consists of a set of sounds or written symbols." Dialects can be defined as different varieties of the same language that have evolved over time and in different geographical locations, For example, French was once dialects of Latin, but over centuries have evolved into their languages. A language is a code, a "code" is a linguistic term used for communication, it is used in different aspects such as; in spoken and written form, whereas dialects are spoken codes without a standardized written system. As for the Arabic dialect, it is the most difficult for speakers of other dialects to understand.
As in Morocco, Arabic considered to belong to the Maghrebi Arabic dialect group which includes not only Arabic but also another language, some people believe that Darija is like hearing a different language, and others believe that it is similar to Arabic. There are people in morocco called " Amazigh people", they came from north Africa, they speak Amazigh languages, when those people learned Arabic, their native language influenced the way they spoke Arabic.
In the 19 th century, the French colonized Morocco, so this colonial presence influenced Moroccan Darjia. Upon independence, the official language became modern standard Arabic, but French continues to be a prestige language, for example; French is the main language in the universities, business, and government. Moroccan Darjia differs from modern standard Arabic and other Arabic in several ways, I would say that the grammar does not radically differ from other Arabic dialects. Moroccan society developed its variety of Arabic that was influenced by their previous native language.
Maltese language; Maltese is a unique and interesting language, it is the official language of the European Union, it is spoken by around 520,000 people mostly on the island nation of Malta, which is an island in the Mediterranean sea. The Maltese dialects are descendent of the Arabic, but it diverged from Arabic, and now become its language. The Maltese language is similar to the Arabic dialects in term of syntax and grammar, the grammar of this language is considered 1/3 of it diverged from Arabic, however, if we took into consideration the amount of the vocabulary that are borrowed from other languages, we can call it a "hybrid" dialect, they differed from the classical Arabic language, now it becomes a new language, so Maltese is essentially an Arabic dialect that has become Latinized, it has the Arabic structure and it is similar to the dialect Maghreb dialect of Arabic, so in my opinion, I do think that the Morrocan dialect and the Maltese dialects are similar to each other in so many ways as I mentions earlier, they are similar in grammar, syntax and even if you hear the Maltese dialect you as a listener can sense the Arabic tone in it.