After I have watched the two videos about the Morrocan Darija language (dialect) and Maltese which is a Semitic language I am going to explain whether these two languages can be considered a dialect of Arabic.
It is known that all Arabic dialects are different from the Standard Arabic (SA), however, when I heard the Maltese language in its different cases; using different words, some sentences contained mainly/ the large number of words were driven from Italian language which I didn't understand the idea although the structure looked and sounded the same like Arabic but these sentences totally sounded like a new language. However, in other cases it sounded the same as in Arabic even closer to the SA where I thought that this language can be a dialect of the Arabic Language. In Addition, in terms of the sentences' structures they are similar to what we have in SA.
The second video which was about the Morrocan Darija Language/ Dialect of Arabic. This language contains words which are similar to Arabic, and when I heard it I could recognize some of its words which are similar to Arabic, I could even understand almost the whole sentence but there were some sentences mentioned in the video where I did not understand the main idea of them, although I have understood big number of words in the sentence but because of the key words that are driven or borrowed from other language. For example, the word CAT, in Morrocan Darija it was spilled MUCH (borrowed from Amazigh) which has nothing to do with the SA (even it isn't close to my Arabic dialect) word meaning of CAT which is QITTA. In addition, in terms of the structure of the sentence, the Morrocan Darija language's structure differ from SA grammatical structure use.
Thus, if I compare the two videos, Morrocan Darija verses Maltese languages, I would say that the Morrocan Darija might be considered more as a dialect of Arabic where phonically it is Arabic ( I can say that this language is Arabic, I know this language), but the language of the Maltese where not all the words are in Arabic but some are from other origins and other languages I couldn't understand the sentence even though there was a word which sounded Arabic but still the sentence sounded totally different. However in cases where this language sounded Arabic, like, "ll-Gappun ghandu l-ghaxar l-akbar popolazzjoni tad-dinja b'aktar minn 126 miljun persuna" It is A DIALECT OF ARABIC.
In lights of all what I had mentioned above, and after I had read some references which are connected to these two languages, both languages are influenced by historical and occupational factors which affected them and added words from other languages or the Arabic words were pronounced according to the speakers origin land; where in some cases I understand a fair bit of them but not all the words. Summing them all up, I think that these two languages can be considered as dialects of Arabic.