The world is full of different languages accents, and dialects. Maltese for example, which is the official language of Malta, is a combination of different languages, Arabic, Italian, and English. This combination refers to the history of Malta, where the Arabs came to Malta after the British occupation. And since Malta is very close to Italy, the Maltese language was affected by the Italian language, and as a result, there was the Maltese language.
The Maltese language is very similar to Arabic in terms of vocabulary, syntax, and grammar. If a person knows Arabic at least, then he will understand Maltese, but not fully, and that refers to many reasons. When a native speaker from Malta speaks Maltese to a native speaker of Arabic, for the first minute, the person who knows Arabic will not realize that the native speaker of Malta is speaking partly Arabic, because the accent is pretty much different from standard Arabic. It is similar to Tunisian Arabic accent. It is worth mentioning that Tunisians can understand Maltese because they both share Arabic and Italian vocabulary.
There are quite a few people consider Maltese as a dialect and not a language. In my opinion, I think Maltese is a language because it has a standardized code used in spoken and written form despite of its mixture of different languages. Dialects are spoken vernacular codes without a standardized written system, it includes pronunciation, grammar and vocabulary that a group of certain people use, just like the Moroccan Arabic or the Moroccan Darija.
Morocco’s first population was an ethnic group from North Africa, which was called the Berber people, who speak the Amazigh languages. Later, the Islam came to Morocco along with their Arabic language, which influenced the language of Amazigh speakers. With joining the Iberian Peninsula (who speak Spanish) by the Muslim control, and the French influence on the country, the Moroccan Darija was influenced by these different languages. Moroccan Arabic is mostly used together with French loanwords, with the use of code- switching. It differs from Standard Arabic in many ways, like grammar, pronunciation, and vocabulary. Pronunciation and grammar of the Moroccan Darija is mostly influenced by the sounds and the structure of words in a sentence of the Amazigh language. When a native speaker of Arabic listen to the Moroccan Arabic, it will be hard for him to understand it because he will find that some of the words are similar to standard Arabic, some is slightly different from standard Arabic but still can be recognized, and some is completely different from standard Arabic.
I think that Moroccan Darija or Moroccan Arabic is a dialect, it is very similar to the situation here we have in Israel. Our Arabic is different from standard Arabic, all the Arabs use the vernacular Arabic but with different dialects according to the place we live in. My origin is from Syria, I live in the Golan Heights and we have words that are completely different from the words of dialects that are used by the Arabs in Israel. Also, in terms of pronunciation, we have our own way in pronouncing words.
To conclude, I think that Maltese is a language and the Moroccan Darija is a dialect despite the mixture of the languages that influenced on both Maltese and Moroccan people.