We can consider both language and dialect as "codes". A language is a code used in both written and spoken form. While a dialect is not considered as a written system, it is used only on the spoken form by a group of people lived in a specific geographical location. We can consider it as different sets of the same language. For example, the Arabic language it can be presented by different dialects that differ from each other. A language is an umbrella term that the word dialect fill under this general term. In other words, dialect can be included as part of a specific language. In this paper we are going to discuss whether Moroccans Arabic and Maltese language are considered to be dialects of Arabic or not. Moroccans Arabic is a dialect used by Moroccans living in Morocco and it is part of the Arabic dialects, although it is affected by the Berber language and somehow by Latin Spanish and French. If we look at Morocco we can see that it is considered as an Arabic country, it is an Arab- speaking country, which means that people there use Arabic on their spoken and written system. Some Arabic speakers claim that Moroccan Arabic is not understood by other countries listeners. Despite its complexity it is still considered as Arabic dialect.
What makes Moroccan Arabic difficult and hard to be understood is the fact that it is influenced by the Barbers' dialect. The word Barber refers to Amazigh people lived in North Africa. When the Arabic language entered the area they were living in, their language was affected. That means that they speak the Arabic language, but their Arabic dialect was affected by the Amazigh dialect and speaking style, the thing that affect their way of speaking.
On the other hand, Maltese language is not considered to be an Arabic dialect, instead it tended to be a language by its own. Maltese language is a special language, it is spoken by the Maltese people of Malta. It is the national language of the country and also serves as an official language of the European Union, the only Semitic language so distinguished. Maltese language descended from Siculo- Arabic and it is developed as Magharebi Arabic. Later the Maltese language evolved independently of classical Arabic gradually to Latinization, as a result of the Norman invasion of Malta and the subsequent re-christianisation of the island. However its syntax and grammar are mostly Arabic, and its third of the vocabulary still Arabic too.
To sum up, we can consider Moroccan Arabic as a dialect of the Arabic language and it is part of it, due to the fact that they speak Arabic but their dialect is affected by the Barber style, so that is why it is complex and hard to understand it. In addition Morocans use Arabic on their written system. On the other hand, Maltese language is not considered as a dialect that related to Arabic despite its Arabic origin, but it was affected by other languages and it is gradually developed to be a language by its own.