Language is the method of human communication, either spoken or written, consisting of the use of words in a structured and conventional way. A dialect is a particular form of a language which is peculiar to a specific region or social group. Language can be categorized into two main parts: spoken language and written language. Dialects can be categorized into two main parts: standard dialects and non-standard dialects
There are several languages of Morocco; the two official languages are Modern Standard Arabic and Berber. Moroccan Arabic (known as Darija) is the spoken native vernacular. The prestige languages in Morocco are French and Arabic in its modern standard forms. Darija is the Moroccan dialect of Arabic meaning every day or colloquial language that is frequently spoken, used, and understood by the majority of the population (it is about 85% of the population).
Moroccan Arabic that is known as Darija considers as a dialect of the Arabic language. In general, the Arabic language is one of the official languages In Morocco and Darija is a dialect of this language. Here are some basic phrases in Darija dialect:
Hello: Salam
House: Dar
How are you?: Kayfa Halouk?
Thank you: Shoukran
The phrases in bold are in the Darija dialect, all of them refer to the Arabic but in different dialect than the modern standard Arabic.
The modern standard Arabic language is rarely spoken in daily life, it  used in formal situations such as religious sermons, books, newspapers, government communications, news broadcasts or political talk shows, Darija is the spoken common language of Morocco, and has a strong presence in Moroccan television entertainment, cinema and commercial advertising. Moroccan Arabic has many regional dialects and accents as well and Darija is one of these dialects.
Before many years the Arab people occupied Sicily, Sicily is close to Malta, after they occupied Sicily they occupied Malta, in that time ( after the Arab occupied Malta)the use of Arabic languages started in Malta and this is the reason of why 1/3 the words of Maltese language is Arabic. Then, the Roman came and occupied Sicily and Malta and there was not Islam anymore, the use of Arabic disappear because there was not Islam people anymore (Islam people were talk Arabic), then other came and occupied Malta and was so many languages because of the occupations. The Arabic language almost disappear.
The Maltese language is not a dialect of Arabic, it is a language by itself, the Maltese language has its own letters, and the alphabetic of the language differs from the Arabic letters. Maltese has diverged quite a lot from Arabic over the last 1000 years and has now become its own language. The syntax and grammar of Maltese remains Arabic and about third of the vocabulary is still Arabic and that includes most of the grammatical function words as well as a lot of the most basic vocabulary, about half of the vocabulary is from Italian and the remaining vocabulary is mostly from English and French. It is still considered a sematic language because of its Arabic origin and because of its structure, but if to take into account all of the foreign loan words, especially the romance loanwords then it is essentially a hybrid language.