Maltese is a land which was concurred by the Muslims and after that it was taken by the Europeans. A well-known saying is "if you know Arabic and English and a little bit Italian then you speak Maltese.
The Maltese language is 40% Italian 20% English and 40% Arabic. The formal Maltese most contains Arabic words broved by the old poem written by Pitro Casharow the Cantelina, a Maltesian poem which is all Arabic but one word. The Maltese accent is much similar to the Tunisian accent even the same.
Maltese is considered as an Arabic dialect but I think not.
Maltese language is way different for hearing it to the Arabic language speakers. It is not as fluent for Arabic speakers nor for listeners. Even listening the Maltese language is difficult to understand or identifying Arabic words in the context, even receiving the main point or what is meant by a sentence or a word is almost as difficult as speaking it for non-Maltese speakers, only when saying or hearing a one word at a time really slowly would make it familiar and understandable for Arabic speakers.
However, Moroccan speakers claim the opposite. Moroccan and Tunisian accent is very similar to the Maltese accent which makes it way easier for Moroccan to understand it and interpret it, despite the fact that the Moroccan is an Arabic dialect it’s more similar to the Maltese dialect than the classical Arabic dialect.
In addition, before the Islamic concur on Maltese lands, the Morocco's population consisted mostly of Amazigh people, a north African ethnic group "Berber" that speaks Amazigh languages, basically compound of French and Spanish. Naturally when these groups of people learned Arabic their Amazigh accent influenced their Arabic speaking. Due to that influence, the Moroccan language gained the unique Darija's features.
The Darija is a Moroccan Arabic dialect. That dialect is almost not understood for classical Arabic speakers which makes them wonder if it is actually the same language or a different one.
The Moroccan Arabic contains three types of words, the first one is the same as Arabic, the second is almost similar to Arabic but not exactly the same, and the third one is completely different and classical Arabic speakers cannot understand it at all and can be the same as different languages words, for example Spanish Amazigh and French words.
What makes it more difficult to understand Moroccan is the pronunciation. The way the words are pronounced makes them unrecognizable for classical Arabic speakers.
There is not much difference between Moroccan and Maltese, however, it is not exactly at the same level of difference with classical Arabic which makes Maltese more difficult to interpret or to understand.
I consider the Maltese dialect as a different language, mostly if not totally. However, the Moroccan is way easier and understandable when reading more than hearing or speaking, which is, in my opinion, a dialect of the Arabic language and not a different one.