The Moroccan Arabic is considered as a dialect of Arabic, that is because it came from the North African ethnic group which speaks the Amazigh language and the Amazigh languages naturally influenced the way they spoke Arabic and later on it became the official language of Morocco.
In the Arabic language we do not have accents, however we have dialects. We have the Standard Arabic and the Vernacular Arabic and that goes to all of the countries who speak Arabic. Standard Arabic is the dialect that all of the Arabic countries learn it in schools and use it as an official language in their countries just like Egypt, Morocco and other Arab countries.
In the Arabic language, each county has its own dialect (the vernacular dialect that they use) for example; the vernacular language in Egypt is the Egyptian dialect because they use it in their everyday life for communication. Another example is Lebanon; the vernacular dialect in Lebanon is the Lebanese dialect because they speak Arabic even though that the second official language there is French, but when they speak in Arabic, they use the vernacular dialect.
In Morocco they use the Moroccan Darija as the Vernacular Arabic that they use it in their everyday life for communication and they also have the Standard Arabic as their official language which they also use for communication but in a formal way not like the vernacular which we use it in an informal setting.
The same goes for the Maltese language, it is considered as a dialect even though the language itself is not Arabic, but the origin is because if we go back in history, we can find that the Arabs lived in Sicily and Malta and they spread the Arab language there that it became one of the languages in Malta, even though the Maltese people do not like it but they cannot deny that Arabic is a part of the Maltese language
The Maltese language is a descendant of socio Arabic, it continued to be used and evolve in Malta.
The Maltese language is a mix of Arabic and Italy. There are many words that are Arabic around 40% percent in the Maltese language and the grammar rules are taken from the Arabic language.
Even though the Maltese people try do deny the Arabic language and that there are words that are taken from the Arabic language, the Tunisian people state that they can understand the Maltese language and say that it is the most European language that is close to Arabic because there are words that are originally from the Arabic language, and because there is proof that Tunisian people can understand the Maltese language, the Maltese people try as much as they can to deny that the Maltese language has Arabic in it.
To conclude, I think that the Moroccan Darija is a dialect because Morocco is an Arab country and each country has its own dialects. The Maltese language is also considered as a dialect because it concludes Arabic within it.