Morocco was occupied from French, that country was speaking Arabic but after the occupation the Moroccan language was influenced with the French language. French is the official language of universities, business and governments. Although that there was an influence of the French language Moroccan Darija is one dialect of the Arabic language.
Moroccan Darija is a dialect that is used for daily communication, at contrary to standard Arabic that is taught in schools and it is used for educational purposes. Despite the French influence, this dialect has a lot of common features with standard Arabic; both have the same words but they are pronounced differently, for example the word "table" is pronounced as "table" but in standard Arabic is "taawila", they are almost the same.
Not only there is a French influence on this dialect, but also there is the influence of the Amazigh language and that resulted to the vowel reduction. In standard Arabic, the stress is on the first syllable but in Darija the stress is on the last syllable, and the first either it pronounced, nor dropped for example the word "write", in standard Arabic is pronounced as "kataba" but in Darija is pronounced as "ktib".
Moreover, the use of the articles in the sentences is almost the same, in standard Arabic the article "the" is pronounced as "al" but in Darija is pronounced "l" for example the word " the school" is pronounces as "el madrasa" in Arabic and in Darija is pronounced as "l mdrasa", they are both the same but they pronounced differently because of the French and the Amazigh influence.
For sure, there are differences between Darija and standard Arabic such as the order of the sentence, in Arabic is verb, subject and object but in Darija is subject, verb and object, of course there are words that are still different but still Darija is a dialect of the Arabic language.
As contrary to Maltese language, it is not a dialect of the Arabic, this language is a sematic language and it is the official language of the European Union. This language has been originated from Sicilian Arabic and then it is become a language by its own.
Maltese is near Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia; people claim that if you know Tunisian language and Italian language you will be able to understand Maltese. Most of the words that are used in Italian and some are from Arabic, so, if you know Tunisian and Italian you would be able to understand some of the words that are said but not the message of what been said. For that you have to learn the language in order to be able to understand and to communicate.
To sum up, Moroccan Darija is a dialect of Arabic however, Maltese is not, it is a language by its own because you need to actually study the language in order to be able to understand and to communicate by this language.