Learning a second language can be so difficult if someone does not acquire it properly. Many people try to learn a foreign language, but they end up failing to speak and communicate well. There are many different ways to learn a foreign language but not all of them are practical or helpful; one way of learning a language is studying on your own; another way is taking private lessons; and you can live in a country where the language is spoken.
Learning a language on your own can be a good idea, but it is not the best way. You may prove your grammar, vocabulary, and the structure of a language, but may not be able to communicate fluently because you do not practice speaking.
The second way that I have mentioned before is taking private lessons. This may also be helpful because the teacher works only with one students and according to his own pace. However, unfortunately, private teachers do not focus on speaking and teaching the language orally. It is easier for them to teach grammar and structure. I think that the best way is to practice the language by communicating and speaking, no matter how mistakes you make: if you do not make mistakes, you will never learn.
I would like to give an example from my own experience to show my point. I finished high school with poor English; I was good in grammar and knew a large number of vocabulary. However, I was not able to speak fluently and express myself. I had the chance to travel to the U.S.A. when I decided to speak English. At the beginning, it was so difficult, but then I was able to speak freely. I think that this is the best way to acquire any language. This is what I do with my pupils. I try to spend more time on listening and speaking to give my pupils the chance to talk. Role play also can be a good idea. Therefore, it is not how many ways there are to learn any language, but it is how to learn it. Language acquisition is a problematic issue, because if you do not acquire a language in the right way, then you will not be able to survive.