Learning a foreign language can be acquired in different ways. The first one is taking lessons as a part of a class. This method is the traditional one, there is a teacher who gives lessons to students in a class to help them learn the language by giving information about it. It can be a good way if the teacher is a qualified one. Unfortunately most of the teachers are not, they do not know how to teach the language in an effective way. They are teaching the rules of the language without giving the students the chance to practice it. The only reason that this way should be done is that if the teacher is a native language.
The second way is taking lessons with a private teacher. On one hand it is a boring way since the student and the teacher are the only one who are involved in the learning process. The student loves to be with other students in order to listen and share his thoughts and ideas with others. One the second hand, it can be an effective way there is only one student that can get the whole attention, so he can asked about the unclear points without being interrupted by others.
The third way is that going to live in a country where the language is spoken. According to me it is the best way to learn a language. The students gain the knowledge from experiences and not from being taught; students find out how to speak and behave by learning from experiences rather than being told. Secondly this way gives the student the opportunity to learn about the culture of the language which is one of the best method to learn a language. Thirdly the students has the responsibility for his doing, he is the teacher of himself. He is aware to the fact that he has to study and learn the language in order to remember it. To sum up, I am not a native English teacher, and to be honest despite the fact that I have been learning English for many years, I don't have a good English accent for the reason that I took lesson as a part of a class and with a private teacher. These ways did not help me improve my accent. I am looking forward going to a country where English is spoken. I want to live the language and not to acquire it.