Learning a foreign language might be a challenging process for learners. Learners might face several obstacles while learning the new language. First of all, they have to know and master massive amount of vocabulary items, as language is 90% vocabulary (no vocabulary = no language). Moreover, mastering the rules of the language also requires a huge effort and practice. Finally, fluency and accuracy need lots of practice and exposure to the language.
One old teacher used to tel us: "If you use the language in your dreams, then you master it." Personally, I totally agree with him. I started learning English as a foreign language (EFL) 14 years ago. Til now, I don't dream in English! At the beginning, it as difficult for me, but then days passed and I knew and mastered lots of vocabulary items as well as being exposed (for a long time) to the language. There are many ways in which a person can learn a new language. Studying by your own might be a very good method. If you like the language, then you can study it at home by being exposed to it through stories, newspapers, magazines, news, TV, seriousness, internet, websites, and so many others.
This method is very effective and useful as it encourages you to become an ambitious independent learner. Moreover, it gives you the chance to be productive as you choose the tools that you like in order to learn through them. However, there are two sides of the coin: You will reach to a moment where you need someone to guide, assess, recommend, and reflect on your tasks. Thus, such method lacks the face-to-face connection between the learner and educators.
One more beneficial method of learning a new language is taking lessons as a part of a class. In this method there is a face-to-face relationship between learners and educators, so that they can provide learners with recommendations and reflections. In addition, they will be highly exposed to the language by writing, listening, speaking and reading: four main facilitators for acquiring a new language. However, lack of self-working at home may reduce the quality of learning. In this way, learners are partially exposed to the language and this will affect the results negatively. Learners have to be exposed to the language at school and at home (24 hours), in order to get the best results.
Living in a country where they speak the language might be the most quick, easy, and effective way of learning the language. Living in a country that speaks the language means that you are totally exposed to it, and of course this is very important. You will start doing everything using the language: speaking, shopping, talking to other people, etc. You will use it in every single step in your life. As a result, you will start to dream using it. Nevertheless, it is not easy and it is a big risk. You will leave your life behind you and move to another different life where you have no relatives, no family and no identity.
To conclude, learning a new language is very challenging process which needs lots of effort and self-work, but it is very nice and funny to know other languages and master them. They will help you any where you travel in this wide world.