Learning a foreign language is a challenging experience, which needs effort and practice. There are different ways that we can us, in order to acquire a foreign language, and succeed to use it. One of the effective ways is depending on our abilities, and study this language alone. I believe that nothing is impossible and if we have a determination we can achieve any thing we want. Studying on our own strengthen our self-confidence and encourage us to trust our abilities, but at the same time, it can be boring to study alone, therefore I think that taking lessons as part of a class is a better way of learning a foreign language, because I think that being a part of a lesson with other students is more effective than learning a lone. The whole process of teaching and learning is based on interaction; students learn better through interaction, they can internalize the foreign language better, if they use it with their classmates. Teachers have a major a major effect over their students, they can use their imagination and creativity to convey the materials in an interesting way; he can use different activities, and games to stimulate his students, and encourage them to interact, and internalize the new foreign words. Students can remember new words better, if they have the opportunities to use them in class, and also in their daily lives. Taking lessons as part of a class, may not help weak students to learn a foreign language, because normally those students do not have a motivation to learn, and they prefer to remain silent most of the time, so it is difficult for them to succeed in learning a foreign language. Therefore, I believe that the best way to learn, and acquire a foreign language is going to live in a country where the language is spoke, because I think that practice makes perfect, and the more we are exposed to the language, the better for us to acquire it. Being in an environment that is full of native speakers, is a great way to learn a foreign language. Having a dialogue with native speakers, encourages us to learn the foreign language, and try to use it. In addition, being in aplace, where we are forced to use the spoken language of this country, motivate us to improve our abilities to express our selves and speak the language correctly. In conclusion, I believe that going to live in a country where the language is spoken, is the most effective way of learning a foreign language.