Studying a foreign language is a challenge: it is not an easy mission. There are multiple ways of learning a foreign language which are the following: studying on your own, taking lessons with a private tutor, taking lessons as part of a class, taking lessons online, and going to live in a country where the language is spoken.
The advantages of these ways are various, and each person can choose the way that suits him. For students who have difficulty to study with a new teacher or with other students, the best way for them is to study on their own. Other students find it difficult to understand the material taught in the classroom or simply can't adjust to the teacher's style of teaching. So, taking additional lessons or lessons with a private tutors will benefit them a lot. There is a minority of students who prefer to broaden their horizons and choose to live in a country where the language is spoken. The believe that interacting with the native speakers and being forced to use the foreign language is what makes them good in this language.
Each on of the ways above has also negative sides. On one hand, the students who choose to study on their own, might be limited. It is preferable to learn the language with a teacher, to hear how different letters and words are pronounced and to be able to interact with other students or native speakers. On other hand, taking lessons with a private tutor or online lessons might not be an intensive and affective way of learning. In this way, the students rely on the teacher or might not get all the attention needed. Students who choose to live in a country where the language is spoken may face many challenges. For example, to adjust to the new country and people finding real opportunities to practice the language properly. Moreover, studying abroad costs a lot. So, taking financial issues must be taken into consideration.
Personally, the most effective way for me is integrates the three methods together. First, it is important for the students to take the initiative and to be responsible. The student can start studying the letters or the simple words alone. Then, it is very useful to take online lessons or private lessons to make sure he is pronounced the letters and the words in a proper way. Later, taking private lessons would be a good way to enrich the language and to control it. Finally, I see that studying in a country where the language is spoken is optional but preferred. If you have time, money, and will to broaden your knowledge, this way is mandatory and have all opportunities to speak and interact new language either in the street or in a school.