Learning a foreign language is very important like any other subjects. When you learn a foreign language you will also learn new cultures, traditions and history; you will be more educated and aware to the external world.
I think that studying a language on your own is not a sufficient way to learn. In this way you can learn many new vocabulary, and you can learn the grammar perfectly, so you can be more accurate. The disadvantages of this way are : first, you will not be fluent because you are learning on your own and you do not have any one to talk with, second, if you learn a language on your own you will not learn everything, you may lose some rules or words. Consequently, you will not be good on it.
Another way of learning a foreign language is taking lessons as part of a class. This way is more effective than the former one, because I believe that in order to learn a language you have to be part of a group, thus you will learn from your friends, and you can share your information with them. On the other hand, it is more fun to learn in group, so you can play or take part in an activity and learn at the same time. Therefore, your motivation to learn a language will increase (this is the most important aspect in learning a foreign language - motivation): the more you have motivation to learn a language, the more you will succeed on it.
In my opinion, the most effective way of learning a foreign language is going to live in a country where the language is spoken. In this way you will not just learn the language, you will also acquire the accent, so, you will almost speak like a native speaker and will not have a problem to express your opinion fluently, this you will not be shy when you speak it. The only disadvantage in this way is that you will not be accurate and you will also lose some of its grammar rules.
To sum it up, the three ways, that I mentioned of learning a foreign language, have advantages and disadvantages so you have to combine them in order to get the excellent results.