Learning a foreign language is very important thing, especially on our modern life. English is an international language that we should learn. People have many ways to learn a foreign language. They can learn on their own, taking private lessons, taking lessons as part of a class, taking lessons online, and going to live in a country where the language is spoken. I can divide these ways into three groups. The first one is to study English on your own. I think you need this way of learning a second language but it is not enough, in this way you will not cover all the skills that you need, to learn a foreign language.
By this way of teaching you will get the information that you need, you will learn new words and how to write words correctly. But you will not find the opportunity to communicate and speak with others that means you will not develop your spoken and listening skills which are very important to get a successful learning of foreign language.
Personally, I think, learning new language is not just knowing new words and how to write them, however, you should hear, speak, and discuss things by using the language. Sitting alone to learn a foreign language will miss these important skills.
The second way to study English is to take private lessons, online lessons, and to take lessons as part of a class. I think this way in the most common and realistic way to learn a foreign language. Student will be part of a group they will learn from each other, they will develop all their learning skills. Students will hear, speak, write, and discuss by using foreign language, However we should care to the gabs between the students and to their levels.
To be a students in a group especially if you have a teacher, he will direct you to get the language correctly.
The third way to learn a foreign language is to live in a country where the language is spoken. I think, not all the people can have and share this opportunity to travel abroad and live in a country where the language is spoken. However, the student will be more expose to the language, he will be close to the language and face the language everywhere.
People will learn and know more about the culture, the traditions, and the literature of the language and the country. I think this way is the most successful way to learn a foreign language but not all the people can have this opportunity. At the end I think we should mix all the ways together to have a successful learning of a foreign language.