Learning foreign language is not an easy thing to do, especially if you will become a teacher and teach this language later. When you learn a language in a university, you learn materials like grammar, linguistics and literature. These materials are not enough for a well language acquisition. There are many different ways for a better language learning, although each one has its own advantages and disadvantages.
The first way is taking lessons as part of a class. It is a traditional way of learning. It is very important for every learner to attend the lessons to learn the main materials that are needed. This way can be boring for many learners because they do not get the opportunity to speak and express themselves in the new foreign language. Indeed, they cannot learn in traditional ways. They need special techniques. Besides taking lessons as part of a class, every learner should study on his own and work hard for better results. This is the second way of learning. Learners need to memorize words, practise writing, and exercise on reading comprehension texts. This can improve most of the required skills of language acquisition. The disadvantage of this way is that not everyone can manage studying by his own. Many learners find it hard to sit and study. They may need help for learning how to speak or someone to guide them.
The best way of learning a foreign language is knowing its culture and meeting its people. So, going to live (even for a while) in a country where the language is spoken,  is an excellent move. The learner will get the chance to speak and practise what he has learned. He will learn the culture of the language and meet the people there, which will help for acquiring the accent and becoming a better foreign language speaker. Although this way is excellent, it can be hard for some. They may not like leaving home and meeting new people. This can be an awful experience for them.
There are many different ways for learning languages. It depends on what the person likes and prefers. We are different. We have different techniques of learning.