Learning a foreign language - I think - must be by several ways; each one has its advantages and disadvantages. Learners may choose by their own the way they prefer to learn through.
The first way, students can adopt to be learned by is studying on their own. I see, that way is perfect, especially for students who have high motivation and self-sufficient. Students, who learn alone, can spend their free time in learning a subject they like and enjoy. Moreover, students who have a full-job time can study whenever they want (the time and the place can not be limited).
Since this way is recommended, I think, it does not work for beginner ones. Beginner students, need to be taught the basic rules by a teacher of the requested language. On my opinion, students must be somehow corrected by an external person (an expert on a requested language).
The second way, a foreign language can be taught by, is taking lessons as a part of a class. This way can be efficient because learning in a class encourage students to participate with the whole class easily. I think, people like to share others with their feelings, thoughts and ideas, so this will be a perfect way to develop the speaking and listening skills at the same time. However, there may be students who does not like to speak and take an active role in groups. Being with others may cause to them uncomfortable feelings which can affect their learning process.
Together with that, people are different in their way of learning. Still, the perfect way, an my opinion is to live in a country where the language is spoken. There can students develop the four skills of the language in a short time. Students also can acquire beside the language, the culture of the people who speak this language. I think, language and culture are two elements who affect each others.
While moving to the country, where the learned language is spoken, could not be available specially for students who have families and a permanent job.
Finally, I think students may have their own favorite choice to learn the language by, according to their private circumstances.