Nowadays, cellphones are the most basic and fundamental tool in students' hands in all ages. It is very wildly spread phenomenon among children and teens. They use it at home, at school and in their free time. Students even report difficulties to keep themselves away at this electronic tool.
Personally, as a teacher, I show a lot of understanding and sympathy with my students attachment to cellphones that's why I encourage them to use it in class, but under my supervision. I try to integrate it in class to serve the class purposes and the educational aims. This way, they can still use it but according to my instructions.
According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students use their phones in class not for educational purposes. Consequently, I think, their school grades and achievements become low. I believe if the teacher puts and emphasis on the disadvantages and the lack of using cellphones in class and discuss it with his students, then maybe the percentage of using cellphones in class might be reduced.
Moreover, a teacher can give out few minutes for his students to use cellphones for their own purposes maybe at the end of the class. This is an act which I highly recommend for teachers to do. This way I can prevent phones sneaking and class distraction. I believe this will be a very wise act of the teacher in order to control phone usage in class. As a result, he can derive students' concentration and attention to his class.
Furthermore, another experiment conducted by Lee and colleagues (2017), in which they divided the students in three groups: group one cellphone usage allowed, group two cellphone possession allowed but without usage and group three cellphones removed, they took 20 minutes lecture, after that the three groups tool the same exam. The results showed the best group was the third with best outcome.
Accordingly, it can be proved that cell phones are considered as restriction to students concentration and performance in class. It highly effects their grades and studies.
Yet, in my point of view as a teacher in the field, we cannot prevent students to use or hold cell phone in class, but it is highly advisable, teachers would be wise and clever enough to direct this usage to the benefit of the students and in which it serves the educational domains and limitations.