Using cellphones is becoming widespread educational tools nowadays. One the one hand more and more schools allow their students to bring cellphones for the purpose of learning. These schools believe that using cellphones has so many benefits for learning purposes for both teachers and the students. The first benefit is that cellphones can be used as dictionary students can translate unfamiliar vocabulary into their own language or as a searching tool for any unclear point that the teacher explains during the classes. It is a good way for the shy students who are afraid to ask.
Another benefit is that the students stay in contact with each other so they can ask their classmates about the difficulties they face during the lesson and this is done without talking with other students loudly and annoying the teacher or their classmates.
The third one is that cellphones can be used as a good useful  and entertainment way for teaches and students at the same time. So many topics can be concluded by using the cellphones through games like kahoot. This method gives the teacher the chance to invest less time on which they conclude the subject they teach.
The last reason is that cellphones are available for most of the students. Cellphones are used everywhere so why not taking advantages of them and use them as an educational tools. According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the student bring their phone to class every day, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time.
On the other hand there are so many school that do not allow their students to bring cellphones to school for different reasons. The first one is that cellphones can distract from learning. The students do not focus and pay attention to the teacher. The students use their cellphones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks. According to the experiment conducted by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza in which students were divided into three groups: cellphone usage allowed, cellphone possession allowed but without usage, cellphones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After the lecture, the groups were give a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The participant who had their cellphone taken away performed better on the test than the two other groups.
Another significant reason is that using cellphone as educational tool is unfair for poor students. These student can not buy the latest smartphones and they can be bullied as a result of their modest cellphones. Finally, cellphones have a bad impact on the health of the student and this was proven by different researches that were done regarding this subject.
According to my experience as a teacher and student cellphones can be used at school but with a limit. They can not be used during the whole classes and for a full time in the lesson. They can be a very good tool for teaching and learning if they are used in the right way. Lectures can be done for both teachers and students to use cellphones in the appropriate way.