These days, all ages have cellphones. Using them for many aspects, such as, learning, guiding, entertainment and social network. In the learning process, cellphones can help students developing themselves and being better learners. The education system allow to students using cellphones in limited and special classes. In the recent years, there was increasing research interest of the effect of cellphones in the learning process. Unfortunately, most of them indicate that using cellphones at school has negative results.
Using cellphones as educational tools help and motivate both students and teachers improve and enrich the quality of learning and teaching skills. These days, students are close to the technological tools more than books or classrooms. Students can learn everything from cellphones and they can find all the information and the knowledge that they needed. We, as teachers have to improve our skill to be in the same line with the students helping them use this tool in effective ways. As student, I use my cellphone in the classes, it helps me to look for information that helps me with the educational work.
On the other hand, there are many research showed that using cellphones in classroom has negative results. According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class every day and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. This study indicate that cellphones can distract from schoolwork. Mor over, the study of Lee, Kim, McDonaugh, Mendoza, and Kim (2017) ensure that cellphones distract student to perform better in test and classes. This study aimed to investigate the effect of using cellphone in classroom. This study conducted an experiment in which students were divided into three groups: cellphone usage allowed, cellphone possession allowed without usage, cellphones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After the lecture, all the three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The result was that the participants who had their cellphone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups. These results indicate and ensure that the using cellphone in the learning process doesn't improve and develop the learning process for students and distract them.
To sum up, I agree with the results and in my point of view, it is expectable. I believe that we, as teachers must find tools to help student use cellphones in effective way. Cellphone is an important tool that help students developing their learning process, but they have to learn when and how to use it. The problem is with limitation and how to use it in benefit and correct way. It is a challenge, for teachers and parents to deal with such a problem.