The widespread use of cellphones among students and teachers demands further studies to be more aware of the advantages and disadvantages of the phenomenon. For me as English teacher, it helps me check the spelling and the pronunciation of a word quickly and easily. It also helps me help my teaching plan, power point program and my teaching digital book in hand. By this way, it will be easier and more organized for me to look for them whenever I need. In addition, keeping the learning material in the storage of a cellphone will be lighter to bear than holding my printed learning material, teacher's guide books and dictionary inside my bag.
However cellphones can be educational tools, still they can be a distraction as well, especially for students. According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class everyday, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes.
Moreover, in another study by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza, and Kim (2017) who conducted an experiment in which students were divided into three groups : cell phone usage allowed, cell phone possessions allowed but without usage, cell phones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After the lecture, all three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The study shows that the participants who had their cell phone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups.
According to that keeping or using a cell phone during the lecture time affects negatively the performance of the participants in the test on a way or another. On the other hand, participants who did not have their cell phone performed better in the multiple-choice test.
To sum up, cellphones can be a good educational tool for both teachers and learners still, it can be a distractive tool for both of them as well.
Therefore, teachers and learners should focus on the learning targets and avoid any distractions. They should keep in mind that they can use their cellphones anytime outside the lesson time. In this way, they can take the benefits from the both, their teachers and their cellphones.