Technology had invaded the world in all directions and institutions. Education was affected by technology as well. In today's education, technological instruments and strategies were applied on learners of all ages. In this paper, I intend to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using cellphones as educational tool.
One of the most widespread technological teaching strategy is the ICT. It involves many technological tools like: internet, social networks, and cellphones. Each classroom in Israel must be supplied with all of the ICT equipment and devices. Integrating technology with education is the main aim of ICT teaching methodology.
Having a variety of teaching methods, the usual typical teaching and the modern technological teaching aids develops and improves the learning quality of students. However, not all of the ICT tools can be used for learning as some of them might distract learners attention and focusing through the lessons.
Using cellphones as educational tools in the classrooms might have some advantages. First of all, it exposes learners to a variety of materials about subjects they are learning at school. So, through the lesson the students can be supported and assisted by other expanded materials from the internet. Second, it might enforce learners with a very important aspect which increases the leaning quality which is "Learning in common". Namely, the learners can learn together through the social network programs such as using the famous application "classroom" which gives learners the chance to learn and share knowledge from each other at the same time while learning in the classroom. Moreover, the cellphone device itself is very attractive. Students from all ages like to spend long time using it. Learners can learn using their favorite way of learning, which might result in a high quality meaningful learning. However, cellphones may be distractors as well.
Tinder and Bohlander (2011) claim that 95% of the students bring their phone to class everyday, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. Having and using cellphones through learning might decrease the learners' quality of learning as it distracts their attention, gives them the chance to send messages, use Facebook and other social networks and applications in the cellphones. So, I wonder how will they learn if their body only exists not their mind.
Achieving a successful learning needs to involve most of our senses. Listening to the teacher, visualizing materials and touching them in different ways (the aim is to feel what your learn) are very important for the learning process, otherwise there will be no learning. If students are distracted then it means they are not or partially using their senses and it results in lower quality of learning. Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) conducted an experiment in which students were divided into three groups: cell phone usage allowed, cellphone possession allowed but without usage, cell phones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After a lecture, all three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The participants who had their cellphone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups.
To conclude, using cellphones might be a different attractive way of learning and might have many advantages. But, it distracts learners from the most important basic condition of learning "the meaningful learning" which involves learners with using most of the senses in order to have a good quality of learning. As a result, learners loose their concentration and fail.