Use of cellphones as educational tools, has advantages and disadvantages. One of the advantages, is using cellphones for educational purposes, such as: searching for materials that the teacher asked them about during the lesson, and looking for data that can help them to complete a difficult assignment. In addition, a teacher can pass an online exam during the lessons. She can ask her students to present something special, which can be related to their cellphones, for instance: the importance of cellphones in their life, or to share a picture or a message that they think it is special and share it with their classmates.
In contrast, according to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 92% of the students, use their phones to text message during class time. The majority of them admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. Personally, I agree that cellphones are sources of temptation for students during classes. Students are used to use cellphones for accessing social networks and chatting with each other, therefore they can not prevent themselves from being distracted. Another study, by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza, and Kim (2017), supported the same idea, that cellphones can distract students during lectures. In their study, they proved that students who had their cellphones taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups which had their cellphones.
In my village, students are not allowed to bring cellphones to school. This is a law and the one who doesn't follow the rules is punished, so as a teacher I can not ask my students to bring cellphones to the lesson, but as a student for M.ED, I think that using cellphones is something essential and important, I can use cellphone for educational purposes during the lectures. It is a beneficial tool that can facilitate the process of learning, I can access to information all the time, all the data is available and from different sources.