Using cellphones as educational tools is a problematic issue for me, as a teacher and also as a student. I am totally against using cellphones inside the classrooms, even as an educational tool because I do not think that students can benefit a lot from them.
As a teacher in a high school, I do not like using cellphones during lessons at all because I notice that the great majority of the students bring cellphones to the school and use them in a bad and noneducational means. That is not a hidden fact, it is a very widespread phenomenon worldwide. According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class every day, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. These data are very worrying and schools must put an end to this immediately because unfortunately students do not use it only for educational purposes but as a mean of entertainment.
If most of the students actually use their cellphones during the classroom and as we can see, they use them for noneducational purposes, that will definitely affect the learning atmosphere negatively. Sending messages, pictures, browsing the next, opening online videos during the classroom, recording the teacher and etc. are a very serious problems that must be stopped. Moreover, using cellphones as an educational too must be considered deeply and I suggest using special programs on computers instead.
The main purpose of any educational system is students' success and achieving the best results and that can not be done by allowing students to use their phones during the classroom. According to the study conducted by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) about cell phones usage during a lecture in a classroom and its effect on the rest result, they found out that the participants who had their cell phones taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups. This is not a surprising fact for me as a teacher, preventing students from using cellphone inside the classroom and warning them from its bad consequences is a daily struggle for us as teachers.
As a college student, I use my cell phone during lectures sometimes and only when it is necessary. It is not very wise to have the same riles in all educational institutions since not all the students have the same awareness level and responsibility. I admit that using the cellphone very often during lectures can really distract me. That is why I use it very carefully during the lectures and use it sometimes for educational purposes only.
I know that we live in a digital age and that technology is taking over our lives as teachers, parents and students and that we should incorporate using technology in our teaching. But, at the same time, I strongly believe cellphone usage inside the classroom should be banned. We can use technology in a more supervised way inside computers lab or at home if needed but I do not recommend using cellphones during lessons at all, because students do not know how to use them wisely and for educational use only, they will definitely take an advantage from having them and use them for other purposes during the lessons.