Nowadays cellphones become very important method, no one can live without it. I can decide the society into two groups: the first group is the group of people who use cellphones just for fun and communicating with others. The second group is the people who use cellphones for fun, communicating with others and getting information from different educational sites.
I think that cellphones are good educational tool because it designed as a small computer, you can get new information from it. In addition you can download the Word, Powerpoint, and Excel as an application so you type and work on it as a computer.
As a student, I use my cellphone for learning purposes. For example, if I want to read a novel, I can download it in my cellphone so I could read it wherever I go. Thus, instead of holding a big heavy computer, it is easier to read from the phone.
Actually, as a teacher I do not use my cellphone in the classroom, but sometimes I ask my students to bring their cellphones in order to play educational games like Kahoot.
In my opinion, cellphones can distract from schoolwork, because in most cases, students at schools do not use their cellphones for educational purposes, they are not aware enough and they just want to entertain. According to survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phones to class every day, and 92% use their phon to text message during class time. The majority of the students also accessing social networks during classes. Consequently, using cellphones at most of the schools is not allowed. Using cellphones in classrooms during lesson or lecture would not be very beneficial for the students, because they will not use it for educational purposes. Instead, they will use it for using social networks or chatting with friends, so this will lead them to low grades as a result of not understanding the material they have learned when they were using their phones. To support my opinion, Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) conducted an experiment in which students were divided into three groups: cellphone usage allowed, cell phone possession allowed but without usage, cellphones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After the lecture, all three groups took a multiple choice test on the material they learned. The participants who had their cell phone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups.