The use of cellphone has been increasing over the last few years. In our days cellphones are on of the most important thing and people cannot live without especially young people and teenagers.
According to this fact, many researchers wanted to find out if teachers can allow their students to use their cellphones during their classes as an educational tool not just for sending text messages, pictures and accessing social networks.
Three researchers Lee, Kim, Mendoza (2017) conducted and experiment to study this fact. They divided students into three groups: the first groups students were using their phones usage during lessons, the second group: cellphone possession allowed but without usage, and the last group, the cellphones removed. After the lesson the three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. In my point of view the results were not shocking and were very realistic.
The participants who had their cellphone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups. Learning in an environment which allowed using cellphone can be not effective and students can perform less than those who doesn't use cellphone during the learning time. The material and the learning process will be not motivated to students who uses their phones during the lesson. They will loss their attention and concentration.
Using cellphones during the lesson will make students to be passive and not active they will not take part, speak and express their opinion, even they will not discover if they understand the material or not.
But I think in some cases teachers can use cellphones as an educational tools but not during the class, however let the students to download learning programs like Quizlet and students can use it in their homes and in their free time, but this way student can engage with their studies and material
For conclusion using cellphones as an educational tools during classes can be not effective for student they will loss their attention and they will not follow the teachers then they will do bad in the exams. And finally they will loss a lot of socialization, they will be passive, not speak and take part during the learning process.