Cellphone usage has become a widespread phenomenon among students in both elementary and high school. Students and their cellphones have become inseparable, which has created a conflict among teachers.
Teachers constantly look for innovative methods to engage their students and make their lessons more interesting. However, with the vast use of cellphones among students, the teachers' mission seemed impossible at first. The picture became more clear to teachers when more and more research was done on the topic. According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class every day, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. Consequently, many teachers nowadays adapt cellphones into their lessons and create cellphone-based lesson plans to make use of this widespread phenomenon. For example, many teachers use Kahoot during their lessons to check the general understanding of the lesson they have taught using Kahoot quizzes. Students enjoy playing and learning in the same time. Another example is Quizlet. An application that helps students learn new vocabulary items as well as practice previously taught ones. Through applying and implementing cellphone-based lessons, teachers make their students active participants in the lessons and by that they also create fun learning experiences where all parties involved are content.
However, excessive cellphone use and exposure to too much radiation can cause irreversible damages among young people in particular. Some of these side effects can be seen as weak eye-sight, memory loss and the most common damage is attention deficits. Excessive, unsupervised use of cellphones can directly influence school achievements and functioning. Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) conducted an experiment in which students were divided into three groups: cell phone usage allowed, cell phone possession allowed but without usage, cell phones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and were sent text messages during the lecture to mimic classroom distractions. After the lecture, all three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The participants who had their cellphone taken away performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups. Therefore, teachers sometimes struggle when they students bring their cell phones to class, since it becomes a distraction to their students and forbids them from concentrating in the lesson. For example, many school subjects demand the students' full attention so that they can be understood, like Mathematics, Physics, History and many more. If a student misses one detail, the whole lesson can go to waste. Furthermore, it is hard for teachers to teach big, heterogenous classes and when students are too busy with their cellphones this makes it even harder for the teacher to catch the attention of all students.
As a teacher, I believe that cellphones should be banned from schools because they cause nothing but a distraction to students. I prefer an experience-based lesson than a cell phone-based lesson because I think my students are more involved in the lesson when they are detached from their cellular phones.