Nowadays, cellphones have been gaining massive popularity. Almost every student owns a cellphone. Students also bring their cellphones everywhere including school. However, is this really a good thing? Should it be allowed?
According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class every dat and 92% use their phone to text messages during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes. Therefore, considering the fact that students carry and use their cellphones during lessons, some teachers believe that they could also use cellphones as educational tools. Moreover, teachers can plan lessons and activities which allow students to use their cellphones for learning purposes instead of entertainment.
For example, teachers can ask the students to search for certain information. They can also ask them to participate in various quizzes and activities using their cellphones. In contrast, other teachers argue that cellphones must be removed from classrooms. Even though, cellphones can be used for education, monitoring and controlling how the students use them is nearly impossible. Therefore, it would be more beneficial to entirely remove this tool from the classroom. As it offers a lot of distraction. Thus is clearly shown in an experiment conducted by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) in which students were divided into three groups: cell phone usage allowed, cell phone possession allowed but without usage, cell phones removed. All participants attended a 20-minute lecture and took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned.
The results of this experiment showed that the group who had their cellphones removed from the lesson performed significantly better on the test than the two other groups.
In conclusion, students may argue that cellphones are useful in classrooms. However, teachers must consider the fact that cellphones provide a lot of distractions before allowing them during the lesson. As a teacher, I believe that cellphones have more disadvantages than advantages during the lessons. Therefore, cellphones must be removed from classrooms.