With the technology progress, smart cellphones are significant tools which almost everyone have it. Students of different ages have smart cellphones since they start studying at schools. They use their cellphones to keep on touch with their family or friends by social networks, text messages and calls. Others have their cellphones as educational tools whether in or out classrooms.
According to the survey conducted by Tinder and Bohlander (2011), 95% of the students bring their phone to class everyday, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. The majority of the students also admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes.
As an elementary school teacher, I do not agree that pupils should have their cellphones in the classrooms. I believe that since elementary pupils are still very young and not aware to use the cellphone effectively. They are still not mature enough to use their cellphones on the suitable time where not to be distracted from the schoolwork. They might spend the class time send pictures for each others, access social networks instead of paying attention to their teacher and focus on learning.
According to Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) who have conducted an experiment in which three groups of students attended a 20-minute lecture. Two groups were allowed to have their phones during the lecture while the third one are not allowed and their cellphones removed.
After the lecture, all three groups took a multiple-choice test on the material they learned. The participants in the third group who had their cellphones taken away performed significantly better on the test that the two other groups.
The results show and explain that students are easily distracted from school work. As a result, their tests scores will not be good enough compared with who do not use the cellphones during the lesson. The results of the experiment assure that learning without cellphone is better and more affective.
To sum up, cellphones are great and effective tools but not during the school time.