Using cell phones, as educational tools during lessons, is a wide-ranging discussion. Although, those who consider the idea of using cellphones at schools a personal choice, are accepted. Still, the majority of teachers believe that cellphones can distract from schoolwork. Tinder and Bohlander (2011) showed in their survey that 95% of the student bring their phone to class every day, and 92% use their phone to text message during class time. Most of the students admitted they used their phones for browsing, sending pictures and accessing social networks during classes.
The statical information above indicate that teachers should accept two facts. First, most of the students already have phones during classes. Second, engaging cellphones into the learning process can stop using cellphones negatively (sending pictures and accessing socia networks).
I totally convinced, as a teacher, that cellphones can be useful during classes. Last week, I passed a lesson for the fifth graders through Kahoot application. Before the classed I asked my students to bring their phones to class. It was a successful experience. In addition, the mathematic teacher at my school uses the Barcode application to encourage students solve riddles.
However, using cellphones during lesson still problematic. An experiment was conducted by Lee, Kim, McDonough, Mendoza and Kim (2017) in which students were divided into three groups: cellphone usage allowed, cellphone possession allowed by without usage, cellphone removed. All of them attended a lecture and was sending messages during it.
After that, the participants took a multiple choice test on the material they learned. the group who had their cellphone taken away performed simnifically better on the test than the two other groups.
Consequently, using cellphones during lessons prevents student to focus well. As a student, I find it hard to focus during lectures specially when I receive text messages. However, sometimes using cellphones during lectures is very useful in certain points such as, scanning material, looking for the dictionary, and making certain definition clear.
For conclusion, using cellphones can be useful if teachers allow their student to use it for learning purposes.